WindowsServerDocs/remote/remote-desktop-services/TOC.md, before:

# [Remote Desktop Services](welcome-to-rds.md)
## [Get started](rds-get-started.md)
### [What's new in RDS?](rds-whats-new.md)
### [Supported configurations for RDS](rds-supported-config.md)
### [Supported security configurations for Windows 10 VDI](rds-vdi-supported-config.md)
### [Planning poster for Remote Desktop Services](rds-poster.md)
### [Remote Desktop Services hosting partners](rds-hosting-partners.md)
## [Plan and design](rds-plan-and-design.md)
### [Build anywhere](rds-plan-build-anywhere.md)
### [Cater to different kinds of users](rds-plan-cater-to-users.md)
### [Access from anywhere](rds-plan-access-from-anywhere.md)
### [High availability](rds-plan-high-availability.md)
### [Multifactor Authentication](rds-plan-mfa.md)
### [Secure data storage](rds-plan-secure-data-storage.md)
### [Choose your graphics rendering technology](rds-graphics-virtualization.md)
### [Connect from any device](rds-plan-connect-from-any-device.md)
### [Choose how you pay](rds-plan-choose-how-you-pay.md)
### [Office 2016 in RDS and VDI deployments](rds-office-vdi-rdsh.md)
#### [Dealing with Outlook search in non-persistent environments](rds-outlook-data-fslogix.md)
#### [Dealing with OneDrive for Business in non-persistent environments](rds-onedrive-for-business.md)
### [Desktop Hosting Reference Architecture](Desktop-Hosting-Reference-Architecture.md)
#### [Remote Desktop Services architecture](Desktop-hosting-logical-architecture.md)
#### [Desktop hosting service](Desktop-hosting-service.md)
#### [Azure services and considerations for desktop hosting](Azure-services-and-considerations-for-desktop-hosting.md)
## [Build and deploy](rds-build-and-deploy.md)
### [Deploy a proof-of-concept RDS environment with ARM and Azure Marketplace](rds-in-azure.md)
### [Migrate your Remote Desktop Services deployments to Windows Server 2016](migrate-rds-role-services.md)
### [Migrate your Remote Desktop Services Client Access Licenses (RDS CALs)](migrate-rds-cals.md)
### [Upgrade your Remote Desktop Services deployments to Windows Server 2016](upgrade-to-rds.md)
#### [Upgrade Remote Desktop Session Host servers](upgrade-to-rdsh.md)
#### [Upgrade Remote Desktop Virtualization Host servers](upgrade-to-rdvh.md)
### [Deploy a Remote Desktop Services infrastructure](rds-deploy-infrastructure.md)
### [Create and deploy a Remote Desktop Services collection](rds-create-collection.md)
### [Set up email discovery for your users](rds-email-discovery.md)
### [License your Remote Desktop deployment](rds-client-access-license.md)
#### [Activate the license server](rds-activate-license-server.md)
#### [Install RDS CALs on the license server](rds-install-cals.md)
#### [Track the CALs used in your deployment](rds-track-cals.md)
### [Integrate Azure services](rds-integrate-with-azure.md)
#### [Learn how to use Multi-factor Authentication with RDS](/azure/multi-factor-authentication/nps-extension-remote-desktop-gateway)
#### [Integrate Azure AD Domain Services with your RDS deployment](rds-azure-adds.md)
#### [Publish Remote Desktop with Azure AD Application Proxy](/azure/active-directory/application-proxy-publish-remote-desktop)
### Extend your RDS environment for high availability
#### [Scale out an existing RDS collection with an RD Session Host farm](rds-scale-rdsh-farm.md)
#### [Add high availability to the RD Connection Broker infrastructure](rds-connection-broker-cluster.md)
#### [Add high availability to the RD Web and RD Gateway web front](rds-rdweb-gateway-ha.md)
#### [Deploy a two-node Storage Spaces Direct file system for UPD storage](rds-storage-spaces-direct-deployment.md)
#### [Deploy and manage a personal session desktops environment](rds-personal-session-desktops.md)
#### [Create VMs for RDS](rds-prepare-vms.md)
### [Set up disaster recovery for your RDS environment](rds-disaster-recovery.md)
#### [Create a geo-redundant RDS deployment](rds-multi-datacenter-deployment.md)
#### [Set up Azure Site Recovery for RDS](rds-disaster-recovery-with-azure.md)
##### [Enable disaster recovery for RDS components](rds-enable-dr-with-asr.md)
##### [Create your disaster recovery plan](rds-disaster-recovery-plan.md)

## [Run and tune](rds-run-and-tune.md)
### [Set up and configure RemoteFX vGPU for Remote Desktop Services](rds-remotefx-vgpu.md)
### [Manage personal desktop session collections](rds-manage-personal-collection.md)
### [Recommended configuration for VDI desktops](rds-vdi-recommendations.md)
### [Manage users in your RDS collection](rds-user-management.md)

## [Additional Remote Desktop support](rds-get-support.md)
## [Remote Desktop clients](clients/remote-desktop-clients.md)
### [Which client works best for you?](clients/remote-desktop-app-compare.md)
### [Supported PCs](clients/remote-desktop-supported-config.md)
### [Grant Remote Desktop access to your PC](clients/remote-desktop-allow-access.md)
### [Grant access to your PC from outside your network](clients/remote-desktop-allow-outside-access.md)
### [Getting started with Remote Desktop client on Android](clients/remote-desktop-android.md)
### [Getting started with Remote Desktop client on iOS](clients/remote-desktop-ios.md)
### [Getting started with Remote Desktop client on Mac](clients/remote-desktop-mac.md)
### [Remote Desktop client FAQ](clients/remote-desktop-client-faq.md)
### [Remote Desktop URI scheme](clients/remote-desktop-uri.md)

Commit message:

Added rds-work-resources.md to TOC and editorial changes
Added rds-work-resources article to TOC and removed the word "SYNTAX" from the article itself.

WindowsServerDocs/remote/remote-desktop-services/TOC.md, after:

# [Remote Desktop Services](welcome-to-rds.md)
## [Get started](rds-get-started.md)
### [What's new in RDS?](rds-whats-new.md)
### [Supported configurations for RDS](rds-supported-config.md)
### [Supported security configurations for Windows 10 VDI](rds-vdi-supported-config.md)
### [Planning poster for Remote Desktop Services](rds-poster.md)
### [Remote Desktop Services hosting partners](rds-hosting-partners.md)
## [Plan and design](rds-plan-and-design.md)
### [Build anywhere](rds-plan-build-anywhere.md)
### [Cater to different kinds of users](rds-plan-cater-to-users.md)
### [Access from anywhere](rds-plan-access-from-anywhere.md)
### [High availability](rds-plan-high-availability.md)
### [Multifactor Authentication](rds-plan-mfa.md)
### [Secure data storage](rds-plan-secure-data-storage.md)
### [Choose your graphics rendering technology](rds-graphics-virtualization.md)
### [Connect from any device](rds-plan-connect-from-any-device.md)
### [Choose how you pay](rds-plan-choose-how-you-pay.md)
### [Office 2016 in RDS and VDI deployments](rds-office-vdi-rdsh.md)
#### [Dealing with Outlook search in non-persistent environments](rds-outlook-data-fslogix.md)
#### [Dealing with OneDrive for Business in non-persistent environments](rds-onedrive-for-business.md)
### [Desktop Hosting Reference Architecture](Desktop-Hosting-Reference-Architecture.md)
#### [Remote Desktop Services architecture](Desktop-hosting-logical-architecture.md)
#### [Desktop hosting service](Desktop-hosting-service.md)
#### [Azure services and considerations for desktop hosting](Azure-services-and-considerations-for-desktop-hosting.md)
## [Build and deploy](rds-build-and-deploy.md)
### [Deploy a proof-of-concept RDS environment with ARM and Azure Marketplace](rds-in-azure.md)
### [Migrate your Remote Desktop Services deployments to Windows Server 2016](migrate-rds-role-services.md)
### [Migrate your Remote Desktop Services Client Access Licenses (RDS CALs)](migrate-rds-cals.md)
### [Upgrade your Remote Desktop Services deployments to Windows Server 2016](upgrade-to-rds.md)
#### [Upgrade Remote Desktop Session Host servers](upgrade-to-rdsh.md)
#### [Upgrade Remote Desktop Virtualization Host servers](upgrade-to-rdvh.md)
### [Deploy a Remote Desktop Services infrastructure](rds-deploy-infrastructure.md)
### [Create and deploy a Remote Desktop Services collection](rds-create-collection.md)
### [Set up email discovery for your users](rds-email-discovery.md)
### [License your Remote Desktop deployment](rds-client-access-license.md)
#### [Activate the license server](rds-activate-license-server.md)
#### [Install RDS CALs on the license server](rds-install-cals.md)
#### [Track the CALs used in your deployment](rds-track-cals.md)
### [Integrate Azure services](rds-integrate-with-azure.md)
#### [Learn how to use Multi-factor Authentication with RDS](/azure/multi-factor-authentication/nps-extension-remote-desktop-gateway)
#### [Integrate Azure AD Domain Services with your RDS deployment](rds-azure-adds.md)
#### [Publish Remote Desktop with Azure AD Application Proxy](/azure/active-directory/application-proxy-publish-remote-desktop)
### Extend your RDS environment for high availability
#### [Scale out an existing RDS collection with an RD Session Host farm](rds-scale-rdsh-farm.md)
#### [Add high availability to the RD Connection Broker infrastructure](rds-connection-broker-cluster.md)
#### [Add high availability to the RD Web and RD Gateway web front](rds-rdweb-gateway-ha.md)
#### [Deploy a two-node Storage Spaces Direct file system for UPD storage](rds-storage-spaces-direct-deployment.md)
#### [Deploy and manage a personal session desktops environment](rds-personal-session-desktops.md)
#### [Create VMs for RDS](rds-prepare-vms.md)
### [Set up disaster recovery for your RDS environment](rds-disaster-recovery.md)
#### [Create a geo-redundant RDS deployment](rds-multi-datacenter-deployment.md)
#### [Set up Azure Site Recovery for RDS](rds-disaster-recovery-with-azure.md)
##### [Enable disaster recovery for RDS components](rds-enable-dr-with-asr.md)
##### [Create your disaster recovery plan](rds-disaster-recovery-plan.md)

## [Run and tune](rds-run-and-tune.md)
### [Set up and configure RemoteFX vGPU for Remote Desktop Services](rds-remotefx-vgpu.md)
### [Manage personal desktop session collections](rds-manage-personal-collection.md)
### [Recommended configuration for VDI desktops](rds-vdi-recommendations.md)
### [Manage users in your RDS collection](rds-user-management.md)
### [Customize the RDS title “Work Resources” using PowerShell on Windows Server](rds-work-resources.md)

## [Additional Remote Desktop support](rds-get-support.md)
## [Remote Desktop clients](clients/remote-desktop-clients.md)
### [Which client works best for you?](clients/remote-desktop-app-compare.md)
### [Supported PCs](clients/remote-desktop-supported-config.md)
### [Grant Remote Desktop access to your PC](clients/remote-desktop-allow-access.md)
### [Grant access to your PC from outside your network](clients/remote-desktop-allow-outside-access.md)
### [Getting started with Remote Desktop client on Android](clients/remote-desktop-android.md)
### [Getting started with Remote Desktop client on iOS](clients/remote-desktop-ios.md)
### [Getting started with Remote Desktop client on Mac](clients/remote-desktop-mac.md)
### [Remote Desktop client FAQ](clients/remote-desktop-client-faq.md)
### [Remote Desktop URI scheme](clients/remote-desktop-uri.md)
