WindowsServerDocs/storage/TOC.md, before:

# [Storage](storage.md)
## [What's new in Storage](whats-new-in-storage.md)
## [Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/overview.md)
### [What's new in Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/whats-new.md)
### [Understand Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/understand.md)
### [Install and enable Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/install-enable.md)
### [Run Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/run.md)
### [Advanced Data Deduplication settings](data-deduplication/advanced-settings.md)
### [Data Deduplication interoperability](data-deduplication/interop.md) 
## [DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/dfs-overview.md)
### [Checklist: Deploy DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/checklist-deploy-dfs-namespaces.md)
### [Checklist: Tune a DFS Namespace](dfs-namespaces/checklist-tune-a-dfs-namespace.md)
### [Deploying DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/deploying-dfs-namespaces.md)
#### [Choose a Namespace Type](dfs-namespaces/choose-a-namespace-type.md)
#### [Create a DFS Namespace](dfs-namespaces/create-a-dfs-namespace.md)
#### [Migrate a Domain-based Namespace to Windows Server 2008 Mode](dfs-namespaces/migrate-a-domain-based-namespace-to-windows-server-2008-mode.md)
#### [Add Namespace Servers to a Domain-based DFS Namespace](dfs-namespaces/add-namespace-servers-to-a-domain-based-DFS-namespace.md)
#### [Create a Folder in a DFS Namespace](dfs-namespaces/create-a-folder-in-a-dfs-namespace.md)
#### [Add Folder Targets](dfs-namespaces/add-folder-targets.md)
#### [Replicate Folder Targets using DFS Replication](dfs-namespaces/replicate-folder-targets-using-dfs-replication.md)
#### [Delegate Management Permissions for DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/delegate-management-permissions-for-dfs-namespaces.md)
### [Tuning DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/tuning-dfs-namespaces.md)
#### [Enable or Disable Referrals and Client Failback](dfs-namespaces/enable-or-disable-referrals-and-client-failback.md)
#### [Change the Amount of Time that Clients Cache Referrals](dfs-namespaces/change-the-amount-of-time-that-clients-cache-referrals.md)
#### [Set the Ordering Method for Targets in Referrals](dfs-namespaces/set-the-ordering-method-for-targets-in-referrals.md)
#### [Set Target Priority to Override Referral Ordering](dfs-namespaces/set-target-priority-to-override-referral-ordering.md)
#### [Optimize Namespace Polling](dfs-namespaces/optimize-namespace-polling.md)
#### [Enable Access-based Enumeration on a Namespace](dfs-namespaces/enable-access-based-enumeration-on-a-namespace.md)
#### [Using Inherited Permissions with Access-based Enumeration](dfs-namespaces/using-inherited-permissions-with-access-based-enumeration.md)
## [Disk Management](disk-management/overview-of-disk-management.md)
## [File Server Resource Manager](fsrm/fsrm-overview.md)
### [Checklist: Apply a Quota to a Volume or Folder](fsrm/checklist-apply-quota-to-volume-or-folder.md)
### [Checklist: Apply a File Screen to a Volume or Folder](fsrm/checklist-apply-file-screen-to-volume-or-folder.md)
### [Setting File Server Resource Manager Options](fsrm/setting-file-server-resource-manager-options.md)
#### [Configure E-mail Notifications](fsrm/configure-email-notifications.md)
#### [Configure Notification Limits](fsrm/configure-notification-limits.md)
#### [Configure Storage Reports](fsrm/configure-storage-reports.md)
#### [Configure File Screen Audit](fsrm/configure-file-screen-audit.md)
### [Quota Management](fsrm/quota-management.md)
#### [Create a Quota](fsrm/create-quota.md)
#### [Create an Auto Apply Quota](fsrm/create-auto-apply-quota.md)
#### [Create a Quota template](fsrm/create-quota-template.md)
#### [Edit Quota Template Properties](fsrm/edit-quota-template-properties.md)
#### [Edit Auto Apply Quota Properties](fsrm/edit-auto-apply-quota-properties.md)
### [File screening Management](fsrm/file-screening-management.md)
#### [Define File Groups for Screening](fsrm/define-file-groups-for-screening.md)
#### [Create a File Screen ](fsrm/create-file-screen.md)
#### [Create a File Screen Exception](fsrm/create-file-screen-exception.md)
#### [Create a File Screen Template](fsrm/create-file-screen-template.md)
#### [Edit File Screen Template Properties](fsrm/edit-file-screen-template-properties.md)
### [Storage Reports Management](fsrm/storage-reports-management.md)
#### [Schedule a Set of Reports](fsrm/schedule-set-of-reports.md)
#### [Generate Reports on Demand](fsrm/generate-reports-on-demand.md)
### [Classification Management](fsrm/classification-management.md)
#### [Create a Classification Property](fsrm/create-classification-property.md)
#### [Create an Automatic Classification Rule](fsrm/create-automatic-classification-rule.md)
### [File Management Tasks](fsrm/file-management-tasks.md)
#### [Create a File Expiration Task](fsrm/create-file-expiration-task.md)
#### [Create a Custom File Management Task](fsrm/create-custom-file-management-task.md)
### [Managing Remote Storage Resources](fsrm/managing-remote-storage-resources.md)
#### [Connect to a Remote Computer](fsrm/connect-to-remote-computer.md)
#### [Command-Line Tools](fsrm/command-line-tools.md)
### [Troubleshooting File Server Resource Manager](fsrm/troubleshooting-file-server-resource-manager.md)
## [ReFS](refs/refs-overview.md)
### [Mirror-accelerated parity](refs/mirror-accelerated-parity.md)
### [Block cloning](refs/block-cloning.md)
### [Integrity streams](refs/integrity-streams.md)
## [Storage Replica](storage-replica/storage-replica-overview.md)
### [Stretch Cluster Replication using Shared Storage](storage-replica/stretch-cluster-replication-using-shared-storage.md)
### [Server to server storage replication](storage-replica/server-to-server-storage-replication.md)
### [Cluster to cluster storage replication](storage-replica/cluster-to-cluster-storage-replication.md)
### [Storage Replica: known issues](storage-replica/storage-replica-known-issues.md)
### [Storage Replica: Frequently Asked Questions](storage-replica/storage-replica-frequently-asked-questions.md)
### [Using Storage Replica with Project Honolulu](storage-replica/storage-replica-ui.md)
## [Storage Spaces Direct](storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-overview.md)
### [Understand](storage-spaces/understand-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Understand the cache](storage-spaces/understand-the-cache.md)
#### [Fault tolerance and storage efficiency](storage-spaces/Storage-Spaces-Fault-Tolerance.md)
#### [Drive symmetry considerations](storage-spaces/drive-symmetry-considerations.md)
#### [Cluster and pool quorum](storage-spaces/understand-quorum.md)
### [Plan](storage-spaces/plan-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Hardware requirements](storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-hardware-requirements.md)
#### [Choose drives](storage-spaces/choosing-drives.md)
#### [Plan volumes](storage-spaces/plan-volumes.md)
#### [Guest VM clusters](storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-in-vm.md)
### [Deploy](storage-spaces/deploy-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Deploy Storage Spaces Direct](storage-spaces/hyper-converged-solution-using-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Create volumes](storage-spaces/create-volumes.md)
### [Manage](storage-spaces/manage-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Add servers or drives](storage-spaces/add-nodes.md)
#### [Taking a server offline for maintenance](storage-spaces/maintain-servers.md)
#### [Remove servers](storage-spaces/remove-servers.md)
#### [Update drive firmware](update-firmware.md)
#### [Extend volumes](storage-spaces/resize-volumes.md)
#### [Health and operational states](storage-spaces/storage-spaces-states.md)
## [Work Folders](work-folders/work-folders-overview.md)
### [Designing a Work Folders Implementation](work-folders/plan-work-folders.md)
### [Deploying Work Folders](work-folders/deploy-work-folders.md)
### [Deploying Work Folders with AD FS and Web Application Proxy (WAP)](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-overview.md)
#### [Step 1, Set up AD FS](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step1.md)
#### [Step 2, AD FS post-configuration](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step2.md)
#### [Step 3, Set up Work Folders](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step3.md)
#### [Step 4, Set up WAP](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step4.md)
#### [Step 5, Set up clients](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step5.md)
## [Storage-class memory health management](storage-spaces/Storage-class-memory-health.md)
## [iSCSI boot](iscsi/iscsi-boot-overview.md)
## [Change history for Storage topics](storage-change-history.md)

Commit message:

More edits - adding preview topics

WindowsServerDocs/storage/TOC.md, after:

# [Storage](storage.md)
## [What's new in Storage](whats-new-in-storage.md)
## [Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/overview.md)
### [What's new in Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/whats-new.md)
### [Understand Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/understand.md)
### [Install and enable Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/install-enable.md)
### [Run Data Deduplication](data-deduplication/run.md)
### [Advanced Data Deduplication settings](data-deduplication/advanced-settings.md)
### [Data Deduplication interoperability](data-deduplication/interop.md) 
## [DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/dfs-overview.md)
### [Checklist: Deploy DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/checklist-deploy-dfs-namespaces.md)
### [Checklist: Tune a DFS Namespace](dfs-namespaces/checklist-tune-a-dfs-namespace.md)
### [Deploying DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/deploying-dfs-namespaces.md)
#### [Choose a Namespace Type](dfs-namespaces/choose-a-namespace-type.md)
#### [Create a DFS Namespace](dfs-namespaces/create-a-dfs-namespace.md)
#### [Migrate a Domain-based Namespace to Windows Server 2008 Mode](dfs-namespaces/migrate-a-domain-based-namespace-to-windows-server-2008-mode.md)
#### [Add Namespace Servers to a Domain-based DFS Namespace](dfs-namespaces/add-namespace-servers-to-a-domain-based-DFS-namespace.md)
#### [Create a Folder in a DFS Namespace](dfs-namespaces/create-a-folder-in-a-dfs-namespace.md)
#### [Add Folder Targets](dfs-namespaces/add-folder-targets.md)
#### [Replicate Folder Targets using DFS Replication](dfs-namespaces/replicate-folder-targets-using-dfs-replication.md)
#### [Delegate Management Permissions for DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/delegate-management-permissions-for-dfs-namespaces.md)
### [Tuning DFS Namespaces](dfs-namespaces/tuning-dfs-namespaces.md)
#### [Enable or Disable Referrals and Client Failback](dfs-namespaces/enable-or-disable-referrals-and-client-failback.md)
#### [Change the Amount of Time that Clients Cache Referrals](dfs-namespaces/change-the-amount-of-time-that-clients-cache-referrals.md)
#### [Set the Ordering Method for Targets in Referrals](dfs-namespaces/set-the-ordering-method-for-targets-in-referrals.md)
#### [Set Target Priority to Override Referral Ordering](dfs-namespaces/set-target-priority-to-override-referral-ordering.md)
#### [Optimize Namespace Polling](dfs-namespaces/optimize-namespace-polling.md)
#### [Enable Access-based Enumeration on a Namespace](dfs-namespaces/enable-access-based-enumeration-on-a-namespace.md)
#### [Using Inherited Permissions with Access-based Enumeration](dfs-namespaces/using-inherited-permissions-with-access-based-enumeration.md)
## [Disk Management](disk-management/overview-of-disk-management.md)
## [File Server Resource Manager](fsrm/fsrm-overview.md)
### [Checklist: Apply a Quota to a Volume or Folder](fsrm/checklist-apply-quota-to-volume-or-folder.md)
### [Checklist: Apply a File Screen to a Volume or Folder](fsrm/checklist-apply-file-screen-to-volume-or-folder.md)
### [Setting File Server Resource Manager Options](fsrm/setting-file-server-resource-manager-options.md)
#### [Configure E-mail Notifications](fsrm/configure-email-notifications.md)
#### [Configure Notification Limits](fsrm/configure-notification-limits.md)
#### [Configure Storage Reports](fsrm/configure-storage-reports.md)
#### [Configure File Screen Audit](fsrm/configure-file-screen-audit.md)
### [Quota Management](fsrm/quota-management.md)
#### [Create a Quota](fsrm/create-quota.md)
#### [Create an Auto Apply Quota](fsrm/create-auto-apply-quota.md)
#### [Create a Quota template](fsrm/create-quota-template.md)
#### [Edit Quota Template Properties](fsrm/edit-quota-template-properties.md)
#### [Edit Auto Apply Quota Properties](fsrm/edit-auto-apply-quota-properties.md)
### [File screening Management](fsrm/file-screening-management.md)
#### [Define File Groups for Screening](fsrm/define-file-groups-for-screening.md)
#### [Create a File Screen ](fsrm/create-file-screen.md)
#### [Create a File Screen Exception](fsrm/create-file-screen-exception.md)
#### [Create a File Screen Template](fsrm/create-file-screen-template.md)
#### [Edit File Screen Template Properties](fsrm/edit-file-screen-template-properties.md)
### [Storage Reports Management](fsrm/storage-reports-management.md)
#### [Schedule a Set of Reports](fsrm/schedule-set-of-reports.md)
#### [Generate Reports on Demand](fsrm/generate-reports-on-demand.md)
### [Classification Management](fsrm/classification-management.md)
#### [Create a Classification Property](fsrm/create-classification-property.md)
#### [Create an Automatic Classification Rule](fsrm/create-automatic-classification-rule.md)
### [File Management Tasks](fsrm/file-management-tasks.md)
#### [Create a File Expiration Task](fsrm/create-file-expiration-task.md)
#### [Create a Custom File Management Task](fsrm/create-custom-file-management-task.md)
### [Managing Remote Storage Resources](fsrm/managing-remote-storage-resources.md)
#### [Connect to a Remote Computer](fsrm/connect-to-remote-computer.md)
#### [Command-Line Tools](fsrm/command-line-tools.md)
### [Troubleshooting File Server Resource Manager](fsrm/troubleshooting-file-server-resource-manager.md)
## [ReFS](refs/refs-overview.md)
### [Mirror-accelerated parity](refs/mirror-accelerated-parity.md)
### [Block cloning](refs/block-cloning.md)
### [Integrity streams](refs/integrity-streams.md)
## [Storage Replica](storage-replica/storage-replica-overview.md)
### [Stretch Cluster Replication using Shared Storage](storage-replica/stretch-cluster-replication-using-shared-storage.md)
### [Server to server storage replication](storage-replica/server-to-server-storage-replication.md)
### [Cluster to cluster storage replication](storage-replica/cluster-to-cluster-storage-replication.md)
### [Storage Replica: known issues](storage-replica/storage-replica-known-issues.md)
### [Storage Replica: Frequently Asked Questions](storage-replica/storage-replica-frequently-asked-questions.md)
### [Using Storage Replica with Project Honolulu](storage-replica/storage-replica-ui.md)
## [Storage Spaces Direct](storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-overview.md)
### [Understand](storage-spaces/understand-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Understand the cache](storage-spaces/understand-the-cache.md)
#### [Fault tolerance and storage efficiency](storage-spaces/Storage-Spaces-Fault-Tolerance.md)
#### [Drive symmetry considerations](storage-spaces/drive-symmetry-considerations.md)
#### [Cluster and pool quorum](storage-spaces/understand-quorum.md)
### [Plan](storage-spaces/plan-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Hardware requirements](storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-hardware-requirements.md)
#### [Choose drives](storage-spaces/choosing-drives.md)
#### [Plan volumes](storage-spaces/plan-volumes.md)
#### [Guest VM clusters](storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-in-vm.md)
### [Deploy](storage-spaces/deploy-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Deploy Storage Spaces Direct](storage-spaces/hyper-converged-solution-using-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Create volumes](storage-spaces/create-volumes.md)
### [Manage](storage-spaces/manage-storage-spaces-direct.md)
#### [Add servers or drives](storage-spaces/add-nodes.md)
#### [Taking a server offline for maintenance](storage-spaces/maintain-servers.md)
#### [Remove servers](storage-spaces/remove-servers.md)
#### [Update drive firmware](update-firmware.md)
#### [Extend volumes](storage-spaces/resize-volumes.md)
#### [Health and operational states](storage-spaces/storage-spaces-states.md)
### [Insider Preview]
#### [Performance history for Storage Spaces Direct](storage-spaces/performance-history.md)
#### [Delimit the allocation of volumes in Storage Spaces Direct](storage-spaces/delimit-volume-allocation.md)
## [Work Folders](work-folders/work-folders-overview.md)
### [Designing a Work Folders Implementation](work-folders/plan-work-folders.md)
### [Deploying Work Folders](work-folders/deploy-work-folders.md)
### [Deploying Work Folders with AD FS and Web Application Proxy (WAP)](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-overview.md)
#### [Step 1, Set up AD FS](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step1.md)
#### [Step 2, AD FS post-configuration](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step2.md)
#### [Step 3, Set up Work Folders](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step3.md)
#### [Step 4, Set up WAP](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step4.md)
#### [Step 5, Set up clients](work-folders/deploy-work-folders-adfs-step5.md)
## [Storage-class memory health management](storage-spaces/Storage-class-memory-health.md)
## [iSCSI boot](iscsi/iscsi-boot-overview.md)
## [Change history for Storage topics](storage-change-history.md)
