README.md, before:

# WindowsServerDocs-pr

This repo is accesible only to internal Microsoft employees, vendors, and contractors. It's actively managed and includes the source for three content sets published to the TechNet technical library:

-  [Windows Server 2016](https://technet.microsoft.com/windows-server-docs/get-started/windows-server-2016)
-  [Essentials Server 2016]()
-  [Microsoft Hyper-V Server 2016](https://technet.microsoft.com/hyper-v-server-docs/Hyper-V-Server-2016)

Writers and engineering partners share responsibility for technical accuracy, within specific technology areas. **The writer for an assigned area reviews and approves all pull requests to add, update, or delete articles or art.** For Windows Server 2016 content, these writers are: 

Windows Server 2016 Area|Owner|Github Alias
---|---|---
Compute|Kathy Davies|KBDAzure
General, server-wide content|Jaime Ondrusek|jaimeo
Networking|Jim McIllece|jamesmci
Remote Desktop Services|Liza Poggemeyer|lizap
Security|Corey Plett|coreyp-at-msft
Storage|Jason Gerend|JasonGerend

Corey Plett is the writer and approver for Essentials Server. Kathy Davies is the writer and approver for Microsoft Hyper-V.

To make a small update, simply edit the file and submit a pull request. For substantive changes, new articles, and deletions, consult with the area owner before spending any significant time. It's the writer's responsibility to manage their area as a content set within the larger content portfolio. This helps us avoid duplication, identify content gaps, and consider how the various articles fit together.

Info on how to add or update content, minimum quality standards, formatting help and more is available in the [Contributor's Guide](../Contributor-guide/Contributor-index), in this repo.

Commit message:

Update from CELA.
CELA has provided replacement licence files which include separate licenses for CC and code snippets. The Content Engineering Team has been tasked with replacing the license files on all existing repos. The changes to the ReadMe file must be at the top of the file to be recognized by license scanners.

README.md, after:

## Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

# WindowsServerDocs-pr

This repo is accesible only to internal Microsoft employees, vendors, and contractors. It's actively managed and includes the source for three content sets published to the TechNet technical library:

-  [Windows Server 2016](https://technet.microsoft.com/windows-server-docs/get-started/windows-server-2016)
-  [Essentials Server 2016]()
-  [Microsoft Hyper-V Server 2016](https://technet.microsoft.com/hyper-v-server-docs/Hyper-V-Server-2016)

Writers and engineering partners share responsibility for technical accuracy, within specific technology areas. **The writer for an assigned area reviews and approves all pull requests to add, update, or delete articles or art.** For Windows Server 2016 content, these writers are: 

Windows Server 2016 Area|Owner|Github Alias
---|---|---
Compute|Kathy Davies|KBDAzure
General, server-wide content|Jaime Ondrusek|jaimeo
Networking|Jim McIllece|jamesmci
Remote Desktop Services|Liza Poggemeyer|lizap
Security|Corey Plett|coreyp-at-msft
Storage|Jason Gerend|JasonGerend

Corey Plett is the writer and approver for Essentials Server. Kathy Davies is the writer and approver for Microsoft Hyper-V.

To make a small update, simply edit the file and submit a pull request. For substantive changes, new articles, and deletions, consult with the area owner before spending any significant time. It's the writer's responsibility to manage their area as a content set within the larger content portfolio. This helps us avoid duplication, identify content gaps, and consider how the various articles fit together.

Info on how to add or update content, minimum quality standards, formatting help and more is available in the [Contributor's Guide](../Contributor-guide/Contributor-index), in this repo.
