WindowsServerDocs/virtualization/virtualization.md, before:

---
title: Virtualization in Windows Server 2016
description: Provides an overview of virtualization technologies, such as Containers and Hyper-V.
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: windows-server-threshold
ms.service: na
manager: dongill
ms.technology: compute
ms.topic: article
author: KBDAzure
ms.author: kathydav
ms.date: 04/17/2017
---
# Virtualization in Windows Server 2016

>Applies To: Windows Server 2016 

<img src="../get-started/media/virtualization.png" style='float:left; padding:.5em;' alt="Icon showing a box with spokes"> Virtualization in Windows Server 2016 is one of the foundational technologies required to create your software defined infrastructure. Along with networking and storage, virtualization features deliver the flexibility you need to power the workloads for your customers.

Virtualization in Windows Server 2016 includes updates to Hyper-V that improve security, scalability, and reliability. Updates to failover clustering, networking, and storage make it even easier to deploy and manage these technologies when used with Hyper-V. For details, see [What's new in Hyper-V on Windows Server 2016](./hyper-v/what-s-new-in-hyper-v-on-windows.md).

New to compute is Windows Containers, which offers another way to deploy flexible, software-based computing power. To try this out, see [Windows Containers Quick Start](https://msdn.microsoft.com/virtualization/windowscontainers/quick_start/quick_start).

>[!Note]
> To download Windows Server 2016, see [Windows Server Evaluations](https://www.microsoft.com/evalcenter/evaluate-windows-server).

## [Containers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/virtualization/windowscontainers)

Use Windows Server and Hyper-V containers to provide standardized runtime environments for development, test, and production teams.

## [Hyper-V](./hyper-v/Hyper-V-on-Windows-Server.md)

The Hyper-V technology provides computing resources through hardware virtualization. Hyper-V creates a software version of computer, called a virtual machine, which you use to run an operating system and applications. You can run multiple virtual machines at the same time, and can create and delete them as needed. 

Hyper-V requires specific hardware to create the virtualization environment. For details, see [System requirements for Hyper-V on Windows Server 2016](./hyper-v/system-requirements-for-hyper-v-on-windows.md). 

### [Hyper-V in Windows Server 2016](./hyper-v/Hyper-V-on-Windows-Server.md)
Learn more about Hyper-V, the hardware you need, the operating systems you can run in your virtual machines, and more. If you're new to Hyper-V, start with the [Hyper-V Technology Overview](./hyper-v/hyper-v-technology-overview.md).

### [Hyper-V on Windows 10](https://msdn.microsoft.com/virtualization/hyperv_on_windows/windows_welcome)
Hyper-V is available in certain versions of Windows 10, Windows 8.1, and Windows 8. Hyper-V on Windows is geared toward development and test activities and gives you a quick and easy way to run different operating systems without deploying more hardware. 

### [Microsoft Hyper-V Server 2016](https://technet.microsoft.com/hyper-v-server-docs/)
The Hyper-V technology is also available separately from Windows and Windows Server, as a free, standalone product. Hyper-V Server is commonly used as the host in a virtualized desktop infrastructure (VDI) environment.

Commit message:

Added vSwitch and sheilded VM overviews and links

WindowsServerDocs/virtualization/virtualization.md, after:

---
title: Virtualization
description: Provides an overview of virtualization technologies, such as Containers, Hyper-V, and links to additional content for Windows Server 2016.
ms.prod: windows-server-threshold
manager: brianlic
ms.technology: compute
ms.topic: article
author: jamesmci
ms.author: jamesmci

---
# Virtualization in Windows Server 2016

>Applies To: Windows Server 2016 

<img src="../get-started/media/virtualization.png" style='float:left; padding:.5em;' alt="Icon showing a box with spokes"> Virtualization in Windows Server 2016 is one of the foundational technologies required to create your software defined infrastructure. Along with networking and storage, virtualization features deliver the flexibility you need to power the workloads for your customers.

Virtualization in Windows Server 2016 includes updates to Hyper-V that improve security, scalability, and reliability. Updates to failover clustering, networking, and storage make it even easier to deploy and manage these technologies when used with Hyper-V. For details, see [What's new in Hyper-V on Windows Server 2016](./hyper-v/what-s-new-in-hyper-v-on-windows.md).

New to compute is Windows Containers, which offers another way to deploy flexible, software-based computing power. To try this out, see [Windows Containers Quick Start](https://msdn.microsoft.com/virtualization/windowscontainers/quick_start/quick_start).

>[!Note]
> To download Windows Server 2016, see [Windows Server Evaluations](https://www.microsoft.com/evalcenter/evaluate-windows-server).

## [Hyper-V](./hyper-v/Hyper-V-on-Windows-Server.md)

The Hyper-V technology provides computing resources through hardware virtualization. Hyper-V creates a software version of computer, called a virtual machine, which you use to run an operating system and applications. You can run multiple virtual machines at the same time, and can create and delete them as needed. 

Hyper-V requires specific hardware to create the virtualization environment. For details, see [System requirements for Hyper-V on Windows Server 2016](./hyper-v/system-requirements-for-hyper-v-on-windows.md). 

### [Hyper-V in Windows Server 2016](./hyper-v/Hyper-V-on-Windows-Server.md)
Learn more about Hyper-V, the hardware you need, the operating systems you can run in your virtual machines, and more. If you're new to Hyper-V, start with the [Hyper-V Technology Overview](./hyper-v/hyper-v-technology-overview.md).

### [Hyper-V on Windows 10](https://msdn.microsoft.com/virtualization/hyperv_on_windows/windows_welcome)
Hyper-V is available in certain versions of Windows 10, Windows 8.1, and Windows 8. Hyper-V on Windows is geared toward development and test activities and gives you a quick and easy way to run different operating systems without deploying more hardware. 

### [Microsoft Hyper-V Server 2016](https://technet.microsoft.com/hyper-v-server-docs/)
The Hyper-V technology is also available separately from Windows and Windows Server, as a free, standalone product. Hyper-V Server is commonly used as the host in a virtualized desktop infrastructure (VDI) environment.

## [Hyper-V Virtual Switch](hyper-v-virtual-switch/Hyper-V-Virtual-Switch.md)

The Hyper-V Virtual Switch is a software-based layer-2 Ethernet network switch that is available in Hyper-V Manager when you install the Hyper-V server role. The switch includes programmatically managed and extensible capabilities to connect virtual machines to both virtual networks and the physical network. In addition, Hyper-V Virtual Switch provides policy enforcement for security, isolation, and service levels.

## [Guarded fabric and shielded VMs](guarded-fabric-shielded-vm/guarded-fabric-and-shielded-vms-top-node.md)

As a cloud service provider or enterprise private cloud administrator, you can use a guarded fabric to provide a more secure environment for VMs. A guarded fabric consists of one Host Guardian Service (HGS) - typically, a cluster of three nodes - plus one or more guarded hosts, and a set of shielded virtual machines (VMs).

## [Containers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/virtualization/windowscontainers)

Use Windows Server and Hyper-V containers to provide standardized runtime environments for development, test, and production teams.
