WindowsServerDocs/security/TOC.md, before:

# [Security and Assurance](security-and-assurance.md)
## [Device Health attestation](device-health-attestation.md)
## [Guarded Fabric and Shielded VMs](https://technet.microsoft.com/windows-server-docs/security/guarded-fabric-shielded-vm/guarded-fabric-and-shielded-vms-top-node)
## [Windows Authentication](windows-authentication/windows-authentication-overview.md)
### [Windows Authentication Technical Overview](windows-authentication/windows-authentication-technical-overview.md)
#### [Windows Authentication Concepts](windows-authentication/windows-authentication-concepts.md)
#### [Windows Logon Scenarios](windows-authentication/windows-logon-scenarios.md)
#### [Windows Authentication Architecture](windows-authentication/windows-authentication-architecture.md)
##### [Security Support Provider Interface Architecture](windows-authentication/security-support-provider-interface-architecture.md)
##### [Credentials Processes in Windows Authentication](windows-authentication/credentials-processes-in-windows-authentication.md)
#### [Group Policy Settings Used in Windows Authentication](windows-authentication/group-policy-settings-used-in-windows-authentication.md)
## [Credentials Protection and Management](credentials-protection-and-management/credentials-protection-and-management.md)
### [Configuring additional LSA Protection](credentials-protection-and-management/configuring-additional-lsa-protection.md)
### [What's New in Credential Protection](credentials-protection-and-management/whats-new-in-credential-protection.md)
### [Protect derived domain credentials with Credential Guard](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/keep-secure/credential-guard)
### [Protect Remote Desktop credentials with Remote Credential Guard](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/keep-secure/remote-credential-guard)
### [Protected Users Security Group](credentials-protection-and-management/protected-users-security-group.md)
### [Authentication Policies and Authentication Policy Silos](credentials-protection-and-management/authentication-policies-and-authentication-policy-silos.md)
## [Group Managed Service Accounts](group-managed-service-accounts/group-managed-service-accounts-overview.md)
### [Getting started with Group Managed Service Accounts](group-managed-service-accounts/getting-started-with-group-managed-service-accounts.md)
#### [Create the Key Distribution Services KDS Root Key](group-managed-service-accounts/create-the-key-distribution-services-kds-root-key.md)
## [Kerberos Authentication](kerberos/kerberos-authentication-overview.md)
### [What's new in Kerberos authentication](kerberos/whats-new-in-kerberos-authentication.md)
### [Kerberos Constrained delegation](kerberos/kerberos-constrained-delegation-overview.md)
### [Preventing Kerberos change password that uses RC4 secret keys](kerberos/preventing-kerberos-change-password-that-uses-rc4-secret-keys.md)
## [NTLM](kerberos/ntlm-overview.md)
## [Passwords](kerberos/passwords-overview.md)
## [TLS - SSL (Schannel SSP)](tls/tls-ssl-schannel-ssp-overview.md)
### [TLS changes in Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016](tls/tls-schannel-ssp-changes-in-windows-10-and-windows-server-2016.md)
### [Schannel Security Support Provider Technical Reference](tls/schannel-security-support-provider-technical-reference.md)
### [Transport Layer Security protocol](tls/transport-layer-security-protocol.md)
### [Datagram Transport Layer Security protocol](tls/datagram-transport-layer-security-protocol.md)
## [How User Account Control Works](user-account-control/how-user-account-control-works.md)
## [Token Binding](token-binding/introducing-token-binding.md)
## [Windows Defender](windows-defender/windows-defender-overview-windows-server.md)
### [Windows Defender Events](windows-defender/windows-defender-events.md)
### [Automatic exclusions for Windows Defender](windows-defender/automatic-exclusions-for-windows-defender.md)

Commit message:

Added new topic: Disabling system services in Windows 2016

WindowsServerDocs/security/TOC.md, after:

# [Security and Assurance](security-and-assurance.md)
## [Device Health attestation](device-health-attestation.md)
## [Guarded Fabric and Shielded VMs](https://technet.microsoft.com/windows-server-docs/security/guarded-fabric-shielded-vm/guarded-fabric-and-shielded-vms-top-node)
## [Windows Authentication](windows-authentication/windows-authentication-overview.md)
### [Windows Authentication Technical Overview](windows-authentication/windows-authentication-technical-overview.md)
#### [Windows Authentication Concepts](windows-authentication/windows-authentication-concepts.md)
#### [Windows Logon Scenarios](windows-authentication/windows-logon-scenarios.md)
#### [Windows Authentication Architecture](windows-authentication/windows-authentication-architecture.md)
##### [Security Support Provider Interface Architecture](windows-authentication/security-support-provider-interface-architecture.md)
##### [Credentials Processes in Windows Authentication](windows-authentication/credentials-processes-in-windows-authentication.md)
#### [Group Policy Settings Used in Windows Authentication](windows-authentication/group-policy-settings-used-in-windows-authentication.md)
## [Credentials Protection and Management](credentials-protection-and-management/credentials-protection-and-management.md)
### [Configuring additional LSA Protection](credentials-protection-and-management/configuring-additional-lsa-protection.md)
### [What's New in Credential Protection](credentials-protection-and-management/whats-new-in-credential-protection.md)
### [Protect derived domain credentials with Credential Guard](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/keep-secure/credential-guard)
### [Protect Remote Desktop credentials with Remote Credential Guard](https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/keep-secure/remote-credential-guard)
### [Protected Users Security Group](credentials-protection-and-management/protected-users-security-group.md)
### [Authentication Policies and Authentication Policy Silos](credentials-protection-and-management/authentication-policies-and-authentication-policy-silos.md)
## [Group Managed Service Accounts](group-managed-service-accounts/group-managed-service-accounts-overview.md)
### [Getting started with Group Managed Service Accounts](group-managed-service-accounts/getting-started-with-group-managed-service-accounts.md)
#### [Create the Key Distribution Services KDS Root Key](group-managed-service-accounts/create-the-key-distribution-services-kds-root-key.md)
## [Kerberos Authentication](kerberos/kerberos-authentication-overview.md)
### [What's new in Kerberos authentication](kerberos/whats-new-in-kerberos-authentication.md)
### [Kerberos Constrained delegation](kerberos/kerberos-constrained-delegation-overview.md)
### [Preventing Kerberos change password that uses RC4 secret keys](kerberos/preventing-kerberos-change-password-that-uses-rc4-secret-keys.md)
## [NTLM](kerberos/ntlm-overview.md)
## [Passwords](kerberos/passwords-overview.md)
## [TLS - SSL (Schannel SSP)](tls/tls-ssl-schannel-ssp-overview.md)
### [TLS changes in Windows 10 and Windows Server 2016](tls/tls-schannel-ssp-changes-in-windows-10-and-windows-server-2016.md)
### [Schannel Security Support Provider Technical Reference](tls/schannel-security-support-provider-technical-reference.md)
### [Transport Layer Security protocol](tls/transport-layer-security-protocol.md)
### [Datagram Transport Layer Security protocol](tls/datagram-transport-layer-security-protocol.md)
## [How User Account Control Works](user-account-control/how-user-account-control-works.md)
## [Token Binding](token-binding/introducing-token-binding.md)
## [Security Guidelines for Disabling System Services in Windows Server 2016](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/security/windows-services/security-guidelines-for-disabling-system-services-in-windows-server-2016.md)
## [Windows Defender](windows-defender/windows-defender-overview-windows-server.md)
### [Windows Defender Events](windows-defender/windows-defender-events.md)
### [Automatic exclusions for Windows Defender](windows-defender/automatic-exclusions-for-windows-defender.md)
