EssentialsDocs/get-started/system-requirements.md, before:

---
title: "System Requirements for Windows Server Essentials"
description: "Describes how to use Windows Server Essentials"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 10/31/2013
ms.prod: windows-server-2016-essentials
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 0951a67d-492f-41ad-9ae5-8e4cd25e3041
author: nnamuhcs
ms.author: coreyp
manager: dongill
---

# System Requirements for Windows Server Essentials

>Applies To: Windows Server 2016 Essentials, Windows Server 2012 R2 Essentials, Windows Server 2012 Essentials 
  
  Windows Server Essentials server software is a 64-bit only operating system. Table 1 defines the recommended minimum hardware requirements for  Windows Server Essentials. Table 2 defines additional hardware and software requirements for the server.  
    
  
## Table 1. System requirements for Windows Server Essentials  
  
|Component|Minimum|Recommended*|Maximum|  
|---------------|-------------|-------------------|-------------|  
|CPU socket|1.4 GHz (64-bit processor) or faster for single core<br /><br /> 1.3 GHz (64-bit processor) or faster for multi-core|3.1 GHz (64-bit processor) or faster multi-core|2 sockets|  
|Memory (RAM)|2 GB<br /><br /> 4 GB if you deploy Windows Server Essentials as a virtual machine|16 GB|64 GB|  
|Hard disks and available storage space|160-GB hard disk with a 60-GB system partition||No limit|  
  
 *The recommended hardware requirements support maximum user and device limits.  
  
## Table 2. Additional hardware and software requirements for Windows Server Essentials  
  
|Component|Description|  
|---------------|-----------------|  
|Network adapter|Gigabit Ethernet adapter (10/100/1000baseT PHY/MAC)|  
|Internet|Some functionality may require Internet access (fees may apply) or a Microsoft account|  
|Supported Client operating systems|Windows 8.1, Windows 8, Windows 7, Macintosh OS X versions 10.5 to 10.8.<br /><br /> **Note:** Some features require professional or higher editions.<br /><br /> 1 GB of available hard drive space (a portion of this disk will be freed after installation)|  
|Router|A router or firewall that supports IPv4 NAT or IPv6|  
|Additional requirements|DVD-ROM drive|  
  
 Actual requirements will vary based on your system configuration and the applications and features you choose to install. Processor performance depends not only on the clock frequency of the processor, but also on the number of cores and the size of the processor cache. Storage space requirements for the system partition are approximate. Additional available storage space may be required if you are installing over a network.  
  
 For more information about the hardware requirements, see the [Windows Server Catalog](http://www.windowsservercatalog.com/).  
  
 All server hardware should meet the requirements established for the  Windows Server 2012 R2 Logo Program for Systems. For more information, see [Windows Logo Program](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/hardware/gg487403.aspx).  
  
## See also  
 
-   [Install Windows Server Essentials](../install/Install-Windows-Server-Essentials.md)  
  
-   [System Requirements for Windows Server Essentials](system-requirements.md)

Commit message:

Adding support statement for dynamic disk
 Dynamic disks are not supported on system drive while configuring Server Essentials.

EssentialsDocs/get-started/system-requirements.md, after:

---
title: "System Requirements for Windows Server Essentials"
description: "Describes how to use Windows Server Essentials"
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 10/31/2013
ms.prod: windows-server-2016-essentials
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 0951a67d-492f-41ad-9ae5-8e4cd25e3041
author: nnamuhcs
ms.author: coreyp
manager: dongill
---

# System Requirements for Windows Server Essentials

>Applies To: Windows Server 2016 Essentials, Windows Server 2012 R2 Essentials, Windows Server 2012 Essentials 
  
  Windows Server Essentials server software is a 64-bit only operating system. Table 1 defines the recommended minimum hardware requirements for  Windows Server Essentials. Table 2 defines additional hardware and software requirements for the server.  
    
  
## Table 1. System requirements for Windows Server Essentials  
  
|Component|Minimum|Recommended*|Maximum|  
|---------------|-------------|-------------------|-------------|  
|CPU socket|1.4 GHz (64-bit processor) or faster for single core<br /><br /> 1.3 GHz (64-bit processor) or faster for multi-core|3.1 GHz (64-bit processor) or faster multi-core|2 sockets|  
|Memory (RAM)|2 GB<br /><br /> 4 GB if you deploy Windows Server Essentials as a virtual machine|16 GB|64 GB|  
|Hard disks and available storage space|160-GB hard disk with a 60-GB system partition||No limit|  
  
 *The recommended hardware requirements support maximum user and device limits.  
  
## Table 2. Additional hardware and software requirements for Windows Server Essentials  
  
|Component|Description|  
|---------------|-----------------|  
|Network adapter|Gigabit Ethernet adapter (10/100/1000baseT PHY/MAC)|  
|Internet|Some functionality may require Internet access (fees may apply) or a Microsoft account|  
|Supported Client operating systems|Windows 8.1, Windows 8, Windows 7, Macintosh OS X versions 10.5 to 10.8.<br /><br /> **Note:** Some features require professional or higher editions.<br /><br /> 1 GB of available hard drive space (a portion of this disk will be freed after installation)|  
|Router|A router or firewall that supports IPv4 NAT or IPv6|  
|Additional requirements|DVD-ROM drive|  
  
 Actual requirements will vary based on your system configuration and the applications and features you choose to install. Processor performance depends not only on the clock frequency of the processor, but also on the number of cores and the size of the processor cache. Storage space requirements for the system partition are approximate. Additional available storage space may be required if you are installing over a network.  
  
 For more information about the hardware requirements, see the [Windows Server Catalog](http://www.windowsservercatalog.com/).  
  
 All server hardware should meet the requirements established for the  Windows Server 2012 R2 Logo Program for Systems. For more information, see [Windows Logo Program](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows/hardware/gg487403.aspx).  

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Dynamic disks are not supported on system drive while configuring Server Essentials.

## See also  
 
-   [Install Windows Server Essentials](../install/Install-Windows-Server-Essentials.md)  
  
-   [System Requirements for Windows Server Essentials](system-requirements.md)
