WindowsServerDocs/storage/storage-spaces/drive-symmetry-considerations.md, before:

---
title: Drive symmetry considerations for Storage Spaces Direct 
ms.author: cosdar
ms.manager: eldenc
ms.technology: storage-spaces
ms.topic: article
author: cosmosdarwin
ms.date: 01/18/2018
Keywords: Storage Spaces Direct
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Drive symmetry considerations for Storage Spaces Direct 

> Applies To: Windows Server 2016

[Storage Spaces Direct](storage-spaces-direct-overview.md) works best when every server has exactly the same drives.

In reality, we recognize this is not always practical: Storage Spaces Direct is designed to run for years and to scale as the needs of your organization grow. Today, you may buy spacious 3 TB hard drives; next year, it may become impossible to find ones that small. Therefore, some amount of mixing-and-matching is supported.

This topic explains the constraints and provides examples of supported and unsupported configurations.

## Constraints

### Type

All servers should have the same [types of drives](choosing-drives.md#drive-types).

For example, if one server has NVMe, they should *all* have NVMe.

### Number

All servers should have the same number of drives of each type.

For example, if one server has six HDD, they should *all* have six HDD.

   > [!NOTE]
   > It is okay for the number of drives to differ temporarily during failures or while adding or removing drives.

### Model

We recommend using drives of the same model and firmware version whenever possible. If you can't, carefully select drives that are as similar as possible. We discourage mixing-and-matching drives of the same type with sharply different performance or endurance characteristics (unless one is cache and the other is capacity) because Storage Spaces Direct distributes IO evenly and does not discriminate based on model.

### Size

We recommend using drives of the same sizes whenever possible.

Using capacity drives of different sizes may result in some unusable capacity – see the next section.

Using cache drives of different sizes may not improve cache performance – see the next section.

   > [!WARNING]
   > Differing capacity drives sizes across servers may result in stranded capacity.

## Understand: capacity imbalance

Storage Spaces Direct is robust to capacity imbalance across drives and across servers. Even if the imbalance is severe, everything will continue to work. However, depending on several factors, capacity that is not available in every server may not be usable.

To see why this happens, consider the simplified illustration below. Each colored box represents one copy of mirrored data. For example, the boxes marked A, A', and A'' are three copies of the same data. To honor server fault tolerance, these copies *must* be stored in different servers.

### Stranded capacity

As drawn, Server 1 (10 TB) and Server 2 (10 TB) are full. Server 3 has larger drives, therefore its total capacity is larger (15 TB). However, to store more three-way mirror data on Server 3 would require copies on Server 1 and Server 2 too, which are already full. The remaining 5 TB capacity on Server 3 cannot be used – it is *"stranded"* capacity.

![Three-way mirror, three servers, stranded capacity](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/Size-Asymmetry-3N-Stranded.png)

### Optimal placement

Conversely, with four servers of 10 TB, 10 TB, 10 TB, and 15 TB capacity and three-way mirror resiliency, it *is* possible to validly place copies in a way that uses all available capacity, as drawn. Whenever this is possible, the Storage Spaces Direct allocator will find and use the optimal placement, leaving no stranded capacity.

![Three-way mirror, four servers, no stranded capacity](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/Size-Asymmetry-4N-No-Stranded.png)

The number of servers, the resiliency, the severity of the capacity imbalance, and other factors affect whether there is stranded capacity. **The most prudent general rule is to assume that only capacity available in every server is guaranteed to be usable.**

## Understand: cache imbalance

Storage Spaces Direct is robust to cache imbalance across drives and across servers. Even if the imbalance is severe, everything will continue to work. Moreover, Storage Spaces Direct always uses all available cache to the fullest.

However, using cache drives of different sizes may not improve cache performance uniformly or predictably: only IO to [drive bindings](understand-the-cache.md#server-side-architecture) with larger cache drives may see improved performance. Storage Spaces Direct distributes IO evenly across bindings and does not discriminate based on cache-to-capacity ratio.

![Cache imbalance](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/Cache-Asymmetry.png)

   > [!TIP]
   > See [Understanding the cache](understand-the-cache.md) to learn more about cache bindings.

## Example configurations

Here are some supported and unsupported configurations:

### ![supported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/supported.png) Supported: different models between servers

The first two servers use NVMe model "X" but the third server uses NVMe model "Z", which is very similar.

| Server 1                    | Server 2                    | Server 3                     |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|------------------------------|
| 2 x NVMe Model X (cache)    | 2 x NVMe Model X (cache)    | 2 x NVMe Model <mark>Z</mark> (cache) |
| 10 x SSD Model Y (capacity) | 10 x SSD Model Y (capacity) | 10 x SSD Model Y (capacity)  |

This is supported.

### ![supported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/supported.png) Supported: different models within server

Every server uses some different mix of HDD models "Y" and "Z", which are very similar.

| Server 1                       | Server 2                       | Server 3                       |
|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| 2 x SSD Model X (cache)        | 2 x SSD Model X (cache)        | 2 x SSD Model X (cache)        |
| <mark>7</mark> x HDD Model Y (capacity) | <mark>5</mark> x HDD Model Y (capacity) | <mark>1</mark> x HDD Model Y (capacity) |
| <mark>3</mark> x HDD Model Z (capacity) | <mark>5</mark> x HDD Model Z (capacity) | <mark>9</mark> x HDD Model Z (capacity) |

This is supported – every server has 10 total HDD.

### ![supported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/supported.png) Supported: different sizes across servers

The first two servers use 4 TB HDD but the third server uses very similar 6 TB HDD.

| Server 1                | Server 2                | Server 3                    |
|-------------------------|-------------------------|-----------------------------|
| 2 x 800 GB NVMe (cache) | 2 x 800 GB NVMe (cache) | 2 x 800 GB NVMe (cache)     |
| 4 x 4 TB HDD (capacity) | 4 x 4 TB HDD (capacity) | 4 x <mark>6</mark> TB HDD (capacity) |

This is supported, although it will result in stranded capacity.

### ![supported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/supported.png) Supported: different sizes within server

Every server uses some different mix of 1.2 TB and very similar 1.6 TB SSD.

| Server 1                   | Server 2                   | Server 3                 |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------|
| 3 x 1.2 TB SSD (cache)     | 2 x 1.2 TB SSD (cache)     | 4 x 1.2 TB SSD (cache)   |
| 1 x <mark>1.6 TB</mark> SSD (cache) | 2 x <mark>1.6 TB</mark> SSD (cache) | -                        |
| 20 x 4 TB HDD (capacity)   | 20 x 4 TB HDD (capacity)   | 20 x 4 TB HDD (capacity) |

This is supported – every server has 4 total SSD.

### ![unsupported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/unsupported.png) Not supported: different types of drives across servers

Server 1 has NVMe but the others don't.

| Server 1             | Server 2            | Server 3            |
|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| 6 x <mark>NVMe</mark> (cache) | -                   | -                   |
| -                    | 6 x SSD (cache)     | 6 x SSD (cache)     |
| 18 x HDD (capacity)  | 18 x HDD (capacity) | 18 x HDD (capacity) |

This isn't supported. The types of drives must be the same in every server.

### ![unsupported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/unsupported.png) Not supported: different number of each type across servers

Server 3 has more drives than the others.

| Server 1            | Server 2            | Server 3                |
|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|
| 2 x NVMe (cache)    | 2 x NVMe (cache)    | <mark>4</mark> x NVMe (cache)    |
| 10 x HDD (capacity) | 10 x HDD (capacity) | <mark>20</mark> x HDD (capacity) |

This isn't supported. The number of drives of each type must be the same in every server.

## Summary

To recap, every server in the cluster must have the same types of drives and the same number of each type. It is supported to mix-and-match drive models and drive sizes as needed, with the considerations above.

| Constraint                               |               |
|------------------------------------------|---------------|
| Same types of drives in every server     | **Required**  |
| Same number of each type in every server | **Required**  |
| Same drive models in every server        | Recommended   |
| Same drive sizes in every server         | Recommended   |

## See also

- [Storage Spaces Direct hardware requirements](storage-spaces-direct-hardware-requirements.md)
- [Storage Spaces Direct overview](storage-spaces-direct-overview.md)

Commit message:

Use contractions where possible, replace "must" with "should"

WindowsServerDocs/storage/storage-spaces/drive-symmetry-considerations.md, after:

---
title: Drive symmetry considerations for Storage Spaces Direct 
ms.author: cosdar
ms.manager: eldenc
ms.technology: storage-spaces
ms.topic: article
author: cosmosdarwin
ms.date: 01/18/2018
Keywords: Storage Spaces Direct
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Drive symmetry considerations for Storage Spaces Direct 

> Applies To: Windows Server 2016

[Storage Spaces Direct](storage-spaces-direct-overview.md) works best when every server has exactly the same drives.

In reality, we recognize this is not always practical: Storage Spaces Direct is designed to run for years and to scale as the needs of your organization grow. Today, you may buy spacious 3 TB hard drives; next year, it may become impossible to find ones that small. Therefore, some amount of mixing-and-matching is supported.

This topic explains the constraints and provides examples of supported and unsupported configurations.

## Constraints

### Type

All servers should have the same [types of drives](choosing-drives.md#drive-types).

For example, if one server has NVMe, they should *all* have NVMe.

### Number

All servers should have the same number of drives of each type.

For example, if one server has six HDD, they should *all* have six HDD.

   > [!NOTE]
   > It is okay for the number of drives to differ temporarily during failures or while adding or removing drives.

### Model

We recommend using drives of the same model and firmware version whenever possible. If you can't, carefully select drives that are as similar as possible. We discourage mixing-and-matching drives of the same type with sharply different performance or endurance characteristics (unless one is cache and the other is capacity) because Storage Spaces Direct distributes IO evenly and doesn't discriminate based on model.

### Size

We recommend using drives of the same sizes whenever possible.

Using capacity drives of different sizes may result in some unusable capacity – see the next section.

Using cache drives of different sizes may not improve cache performance – see the next section.

   > [!WARNING]
   > Differing capacity drives sizes across servers may result in stranded capacity.

## Understand: capacity imbalance

Storage Spaces Direct is robust to capacity imbalance across drives and across servers. Even if the imbalance is severe, everything will continue to work. However, depending on several factors, capacity that isn't available in every server may not be usable.

To see why this happens, consider the simplified illustration below. Each colored box represents one copy of mirrored data. For example, the boxes marked A, A', and A'' are three copies of the same data. To honor server fault tolerance, these copies *must* be stored in different servers.

### Stranded capacity

As drawn, Server 1 (10 TB) and Server 2 (10 TB) are full. Server 3 has larger drives, therefore its total capacity is larger (15 TB). However, to store more three-way mirror data on Server 3 would require copies on Server 1 and Server 2 too, which are already full. The remaining 5 TB capacity on Server 3 can't be used – it's *"stranded"* capacity.

![Three-way mirror, three servers, stranded capacity](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/Size-Asymmetry-3N-Stranded.png)

### Optimal placement

Conversely, with four servers of 10 TB, 10 TB, 10 TB, and 15 TB capacity and three-way mirror resiliency, it *is* possible to validly place copies in a way that uses all available capacity, as drawn. Whenever this is possible, the Storage Spaces Direct allocator will find and use the optimal placement, leaving no stranded capacity.

![Three-way mirror, four servers, no stranded capacity](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/Size-Asymmetry-4N-No-Stranded.png)

The number of servers, the resiliency, the severity of the capacity imbalance, and other factors affect whether there is stranded capacity. **The most prudent general rule is to assume that only capacity available in every server is guaranteed to be usable.**

## Understand: cache imbalance

Storage Spaces Direct is robust to cache imbalance across drives and across servers. Even if the imbalance is severe, everything will continue to work. Moreover, Storage Spaces Direct always uses all available cache to the fullest.

However, using cache drives of different sizes may not improve cache performance uniformly or predictably: only IO to [drive bindings](understand-the-cache.md#server-side-architecture) with larger cache drives may see improved performance. Storage Spaces Direct distributes IO evenly across bindings and doesn't discriminate based on cache-to-capacity ratio.

![Cache imbalance](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/Cache-Asymmetry.png)

   > [!TIP]
   > See [Understanding the cache](understand-the-cache.md) to learn more about cache bindings.

## Example configurations

Here are some supported and unsupported configurations:

### ![supported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/supported.png) Supported: different models between servers

The first two servers use NVMe model "X" but the third server uses NVMe model "Z", which is very similar.

| Server 1                    | Server 2                    | Server 3                     |
|-----------------------------|-----------------------------|------------------------------|
| 2 x NVMe Model X (cache)    | 2 x NVMe Model X (cache)    | 2 x NVMe Model <mark>Z</mark> (cache) |
| 10 x SSD Model Y (capacity) | 10 x SSD Model Y (capacity) | 10 x SSD Model Y (capacity)  |

This is supported.

### ![supported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/supported.png) Supported: different models within server

Every server uses some different mix of HDD models "Y" and "Z", which are very similar.

| Server 1                       | Server 2                       | Server 3                       |
|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| 2 x SSD Model X (cache)        | 2 x SSD Model X (cache)        | 2 x SSD Model X (cache)        |
| <mark>7</mark> x HDD Model Y (capacity) | <mark>5</mark> x HDD Model Y (capacity) | <mark>1</mark> x HDD Model Y (capacity) |
| <mark>3</mark> x HDD Model Z (capacity) | <mark>5</mark> x HDD Model Z (capacity) | <mark>9</mark> x HDD Model Z (capacity) |

This is supported – every server has 10 total HDD.

### ![supported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/supported.png) Supported: different sizes across servers

The first two servers use 4 TB HDD but the third server uses very similar 6 TB HDD.

| Server 1                | Server 2                | Server 3                    |
|-------------------------|-------------------------|-----------------------------|
| 2 x 800 GB NVMe (cache) | 2 x 800 GB NVMe (cache) | 2 x 800 GB NVMe (cache)     |
| 4 x 4 TB HDD (capacity) | 4 x 4 TB HDD (capacity) | 4 x <mark>6</mark> TB HDD (capacity) |

This is supported, although it will result in stranded capacity.

### ![supported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/supported.png) Supported: different sizes within server

Every server uses some different mix of 1.2 TB and very similar 1.6 TB SSD.

| Server 1                   | Server 2                   | Server 3                 |
|----------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------|
| 3 x 1.2 TB SSD (cache)     | 2 x 1.2 TB SSD (cache)     | 4 x 1.2 TB SSD (cache)   |
| 1 x <mark>1.6 TB</mark> SSD (cache) | 2 x <mark>1.6 TB</mark> SSD (cache) | -                        |
| 20 x 4 TB HDD (capacity)   | 20 x 4 TB HDD (capacity)   | 20 x 4 TB HDD (capacity) |

This is supported – every server has 4 total SSD.

### ![unsupported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/unsupported.png) Not supported: different types of drives across servers

Server 1 has NVMe but the others don't.

| Server 1             | Server 2            | Server 3            |
|----------------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| 6 x <mark>NVMe</mark> (cache) | -                   | -                   |
| -                    | 6 x SSD (cache)     | 6 x SSD (cache)     |
| 18 x HDD (capacity)  | 18 x HDD (capacity) | 18 x HDD (capacity) |

This isn't supported. The types of drives should be the same in every server.

### ![unsupported](media/drive-symmetry-considerations/unsupported.png) Not supported: different number of each type across servers

Server 3 has more drives than the others.

| Server 1            | Server 2            | Server 3                |
|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------|
| 2 x NVMe (cache)    | 2 x NVMe (cache)    | <mark>4</mark> x NVMe (cache)    |
| 10 x HDD (capacity) | 10 x HDD (capacity) | <mark>20</mark> x HDD (capacity) |

This isn't supported. The number of drives of each type should be the same in every server.

## Summary

To recap, every server in the cluster should have the same types of drives and the same number of each type. It is supported to mix-and-match drive models and drive sizes as needed, with the considerations above.

| Constraint                               |               |
|------------------------------------------|---------------|
| Same types of drives in every server     | **Required**  |
| Same number of each type in every server | **Required**  |
| Same drive models in every server        | Recommended   |
| Same drive sizes in every server         | Recommended   |

## See also

- [Storage Spaces Direct hardware requirements](storage-spaces-direct-hardware-requirements.md)
- [Storage Spaces Direct overview](storage-spaces-direct-overview.md)
