WindowsServerDocs/storage/storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-in-vm.md, before:

---
title: Deploying Storage Spaces Direct in a virtual machine
ms.prod: windows-server-threshold
ms.author: eldenc
ms.manager: eldenc
ms.technology: storage-spaces
ms.topic: article
author: eldenchristensen
ms.date: 10/25/2017
description: An overview of Storage Spaces Direct, a feature of Windows Server Enterprise Edition that enables you to cluster servers with internal storage into a software-defined storage solution.
---
# Deploying Storage Spaces Direct in a virtual machine guest cluster

You can deploy Storage Spaces Direct on a cluster of physical servers, or on virtual machines as discussed in this topic.This delivers virtual shared storage
across a set of VMs on top of a private or public cloud so that application high availability solutions can be deployed to increase the availability of applications.

![](media/storage-spaces-direct-in-vm/storage-spaces-direct-in-vm.png)

## Deploying in Azure Iaas VMs

[Azure
templates](https://github.com/robotechredmond/301-storage-spaces-direct-md) have
been published decrease the complexity, configure best practices, and speed of
your Storage Spaces Direct deployments in an Azure Iaas VM. This is the
recommended solution for deploying in Azure.

<iframe src="https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/Microsoft-Hybrid-Cloud-Best-Practices-for-IT-Pros/Step-by-Step-Deploy-Windows-Server-2016-Storage-Spaces-Direct-S2D-Cluster-in-Microsoft-Azure/player" width="960" height="540" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Considerations when deploying Storage Spaces Direct in a VM

The following considerations apply when deploying Storage Spaces Direct in a
virtualized environment.  
Note: Azure templates will automatically configure the below considerations for
you and are the recommended solution when deploying in Azure IaaS VMs.

-   Minimum of 2 nodes and maximum of 3 nodes

-   2-node deployments must configure a witness (Cloud Witness or File Share
    Witness)

-   Configure the virtual machines to be deployed across fault domains

    -   Azure – Configure Availability Set

    -   Hyper-V – Configure AntiAffinityClassNames on the VMs to separate the
        VMs across nodes

    -   VMware – Configure VM-VM Anti-Affinity rule by Creating a DRS Rule of
        type ‘Separate Virtual Machines” to separate the VMs across ESX hosts

-   Leverage low latency / high performance storage

    -   Azure Premium Storage managed disks are required

-   Deploy a flat storage design with no Caching Devices configured

-   Minimum of 2 virtual data disks presented to each VM (VHD / VHDX / VMDK)

    -   This number is different than bare-metal deployments because the virtual
        "drives" are files which are not susceptible to physical failures

-   Disable the automatic drive replacement capabilities in the Health Service
    by running the following PowerShell cmdlet:

    -   Get-storagesubsystem clus\* \| set-storagehealthsetting -name
        “System.Storage.PhysicalDisk.AutoReplace.Enabled” -value “False”

-   Not Supported: Host level Virtual Disk snapshot/restore

    -   Leverage traditional guest level backup solutions to backup and restore
        the data on the Storage Spaces Direct volumes

-   To give greater resiliency to possible VHD storage latency, increase the
    spaces I/O timeout value:

>   HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SYSTEM\\CurrentControlSet\\Services\\spaceport\\Parameters\\HwTimeout

dword:00002710

## See also

Additional Azure Iaas VM templates for deploying Storage Spaces Direct, video’s,
and step-by-step guides can be found at [this
link](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/clustering/2017/02/14/deploying-an-iaas-vm-guest-clusters-in-microsoft-azure/).

Commit message:

Updated storage-spaces-direct-in-vm.md Several changes, emphasizing "guest cluster" to distinguish from stand-alone VMs...

WindowsServerDocs/storage/storage-spaces/storage-spaces-direct-in-vm.md, after:

---
title: Deploying Storage Spaces Direct in a virtual machine
ms.prod: windows-server-threshold
ms.author: eldenc
ms.manager: eldenc
ms.technology: storage-spaces
ms.topic: article
author: eldenchristensen
ms.date: 10/25/2017
description: An overview of Storage Spaces Direct, a feature of Windows Server Enterprise Edition that enables you to cluster servers with internal storage into a software-defined storage solution.
---
# Deploying Storage Spaces Direct in a virtual machine guest cluster

You can deploy Storage Spaces Direct on a cluster of physical servers, or on virtual machine guest clusters as discussed in this topic. This type of deployment delivers virtual shared storage
across a set of VMs on top of a private or public cloud so that application high availability solutions can be used to increase the availability of applications.

![](media/storage-spaces-direct-in-vm/storage-spaces-direct-in-vm.png)

## Deploying in Azure Iaas VM guest clusters

[Azure
templates](https://github.com/robotechredmond/301-storage-spaces-direct-md) have
been published decrease the complexity, configure best practices, and speed of
your Storage Spaces Direct deployments in an Azure Iaas VM. This is the
recommended solution for deploying in Azure.

<iframe src="https://channel9.msdn.com/Series/Microsoft-Hybrid-Cloud-Best-Practices-for-IT-Pros/Step-by-Step-Deploy-Windows-Server-2016-Storage-Spaces-Direct-S2D-Cluster-in-Microsoft-Azure/player" width="960" height="540" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Considerations when deploying Storage Spaces Direct in a VM guest cluster

The following considerations apply when deploying Storage Spaces Direct in a
virtualized environment.  
Note: Azure templates will automatically configure the below considerations for
you and are the recommended solution when deploying in Azure IaaS VMs.

-   Minimum of 2 nodes and maximum of 3 nodes

-   2-node deployments must configure a witness (Cloud Witness or File Share
    Witness)

-   Configure the virtual machines to be deployed across fault domains

    -   Azure – Configure Availability Set

    -   Hyper-V – Configure AntiAffinityClassNames on the VMs to separate the
        VMs across nodes

    -   VMware – Configure VM-VM Anti-Affinity rule by Creating a DRS Rule of
        type ‘Separate Virtual Machines” to separate the VMs across ESX hosts

-   Leverage low latency / high performance storage

    -   Azure Premium Storage managed disks are required

-   Deploy a flat storage design with no Caching Devices configured

-   Minimum of 2 virtual data disks presented to each VM (VHD / VHDX / VMDK)

    -   This number is different than bare-metal deployments because the virtual
        "drives" can be implemented as files which are not susceptible to physical failures

-   Disable the automatic drive replacement capabilities in the Health Service
    by running the following PowerShell cmdlet:

    -   Get-storagesubsystem clus\* \| set-storagehealthsetting -name
        “System.Storage.PhysicalDisk.AutoReplace.Enabled” -value “False”

-   Not Supported: Host level Virtual Disk snapshot/restore

    -   Leverage traditional guest level backup solutions to backup and restore
        the data on the Storage Spaces Direct volumes

-   To give greater resiliency to possible VHD / VHDX / VMDK storage latency in guest clusters, increase the
    spaces I/O timeout value:

>   HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\\SYSTEM\\CurrentControlSet\\Services\\spaceport\\Parameters\\HwTimeout

dword:00002710

The decimal equivalent is 30000, which is 30 seconds. Note that the default value is 1770 Hexadecimal, or 6000 Decimal, which is 6 seconds.

## See also

Additional Azure Iaas VM templates for deploying Storage Spaces Direct, video’s,
and step-by-step guides can be found at [this
link](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/clustering/2017/02/14/deploying-an-iaas-vm-guest-clusters-in-microsoft-azure/).
