WindowsServerDocs/remote/remote-access/vpn/always-on-vpn/deploy/vpn-deploy-ras.md, before:

---
title: Configure the Remote Access Server for Always On VPN
description: This topic provides detailed instructions for deploying Always On VPN in Windows Server 2016.
ms.prod: windows-server-threshold
ms.technology: networking
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 7607a9b7-c9a4-4c4d-8a62-2d4c422e2a1f
manager: brianlic
ms.author: jamesmci
author: jamesmci
---

# Configure the Remote Access Server for Always On VPN

>Applies To: Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows 10

You can use this section to install and configure the Remote Access server role on the computer or virtual machine \(VM\) that you want to use as your VPN server. 

The steps in this section allow you to complete the following items.

1. On the computer or VM that is planned as the VPN server, and that is installed on your perimeter network, you can install Remote Access.

2. On the Remote Access server, you can configure Remote Access as a RAS Gateway VPN server.

## Install Remote Access as a RAS Gateway VPN Server

You can use this section to install the Remote Access role as a single tenant RAS Gateway VPN server.

For more information, see [Remote Access](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows-server/remote/remote-access/remote-access).

**Administrative Credentials**

To complete this procedure, you must be a member of the **Domain Admins** group.

### To install Remote Access by using Windows PowerShell

To perform this procedure by using Windows PowerShell, run Windows PowerShell as Administrator, type the following command, and then press ENTER.

`Install-WindowsFeature DirectAccess-VPN -IncludeManagementTools`

After installation successfully completes, the following message appears in Windows PowerShell.

|Success| Restart Needed| Exit Code|  Feature Result|
|------- |--------------| ---------|  --------------|
|True|No |Success|{RAS Connection Manager Administration Kit|

### To install Remote Access by using Server Manager

You can use the following procedure to install Remote Access using Server Manager.

1.  On the VPN server, in **Server Manager**, click **Manage**, and then click **Add Roles and Features**. The Add Roles and Features Wizard opens.

2.  In **Before you begin**, click **Next**.

3.  In **Select Installation Type**, ensure that **Role-Based or feature-based installation** is selected, and then click **Next**.

4.  In **Select destination server**, ensure that **Select a server from the server pool** is selected. In **Server Pool**, ensure that the local computer is selected. Click **Next**.

5.  In **Select server roles**, in **Roles**, click **Remote Access**, and then click **Next**.

6.  In **Select features**, click **Next**.

7.  In **Remote Access**, click **Next**.

8.  In **Select role service**, in **Role services**, click **DirectAccess and VPN \(RAS\)**. The **Add Roles and Features Wizard** dialog box opens.

9.  In **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, click **Add Features** to close the dialog box, and then click
    **Next**.

10. In **Web Server Role (IIS)**, click **Next**.

11. In **Select role services**, click **Next**.

12. In **Confirm installation selections**, review the choices you've made, and then click **Install**.

13. When the installation is complete, click **Close**.

## Configure Remote Access as a VPN Server

In this section, you configure Remote Access VPN to allow IKEv2 VPN connections, deny connections from other VPN protocols, and assign a static IP address pool for issuance of IP addresses to connecting authorized VPN clients.

### To Configure Remote Access as a VPN Server

1.  On the VPN server, in Server Manager, click the **Notifications** flag; then, in the **Tasks** menu, click **Open the Getting Started Wizard**. The **Configure Remote Access** wizard opens.

	>[!NOTE]
	>The **Configure Remote Access** wizard might open behind Server Manager. If you think the wizard is taking too long to open, move or minimize Server Manager to find out whether the wizard is behind it. If not, wait for the wizard to initialize.

1.  In **Configure Remote Access**, click **Deploy VPN only**. The Routing and Remote Access Microsoft Management Console \(MMC\) opens.

2.  In Routing and Remote Access, right-click the VPN server, and click **Configure and Enable Routing and Remote Access**. The **Routing and Remote Access Server Setup Wizard** opens. Complete the following steps:

    a.  In the Routing and Remote Access Server Setup Wizard, click **Next**.

    b.  In **Configuration**, click **Custom Configuration**, and then click **Next**.

    c.  In **Custom Configuration**, click **VPN access**, and then click **Next**.

    d.  In **Completing the Routing and Remote Access Server Setup Wizard**, click **Finish** to close the wizard, and click **OK** to close the Routing and Remote Access dialog box.

    e.  Click **Start service** to start Remote Access.

3.  In the Remote Access MMC, right\-click the VPN server, and click **Properties**.

4.  In **Properties**, click the **IPv4** tab. Click **Static address pool**, and complete the following steps to configure an IP address pool. The static address pool should contain addresses from the internal perimeter network. These addresses are on the internal-facing network connection on the VPN server, not the corporate network.

    a.  Click **Add**.

    b.  In **Start IP address**, type the starting IP address in the range you want to assign to VPN clients.

    c.  In **End IP address**, type the ending IP address in the range you want to assign to VPN clients, or in **Number of addresses**, type the number of address you want to make available.

	>[!NOTE]
	>If you’re using DHCP for this subnet, ensure that you configure a corresponding address exclusion on your DHCP servers.

5.  In **Properties**, on the **IPv4** tab, click **Adapter**. The resulting list displays the network adapters that are installed. Click the Ethernet adapter that is connected to your internal perimeter network.

6. In **Properties**, click the **Security** tab. Click **Authentication provider**, and then click **RADIUS Authentication**. Click **Configure**. The **RADIUS Authentication** dialog box opens.

7. In **RADIUS Authentication**, click **Add**. The **Add RADIUS Server** dialog box opens.

8. In **Add RADIUS Server**, in **Server name**, type the Fully Qualified Domain Name of the NPS server on your Organization/Corporate network. For example, if the NetBIOS name of your NPS server is NPS1 and your domain name is corp.contoso.com, type **NPS1.corp.contoso.com**.

9. In **Shared secret**, click **Change**. The **Change Secret** dialog box opens.

10. In **Change Secret**, in **New secret**, type a text string. In **Confirm new secret**, type the same text string, and then click **OK**. IMPORTANT: Save this text string. When you configure the NPS Server on your Organization/Corporate network, you will add this VPN Server as a RADIUS Client. During that configuration, you will use this same shared secret so that the NPS and VPN Servers can communicate.

11. In **Add RADIUS Server**, review the default settings for **Time-out**, **Initial score**, and **Port**. If necessary, change the values to match the requirements for your environment, and then click **OK**.

12.  Click **OK** to close the **Properties** dialog box.

13.  In the Routing and Remote Access MMC, right-click **Ports,** and then click **Properties**. The **Ports Properties** dialog box opens.

14.  In **Ports Properties**, click **WAN Miniport \(SSTP\)**, and then click **Configure**. The **Configure Device - WAN Miniport \(SSTP\)** dialog box opens.

15.  In **Configure Device - WAN Miniport \(SSTP\)**, deselect the **Remote access connections \(inbound only\)** and **Demand-dial routing connections \(inbound and outbound\)** check boxes, and then click **OK**.

16.  Repeat the actions described in the previous step for **WAN Miniport \(L2TP\)** and **WAN Miniport \(PPTP\)**.

17.  Click **WAN Miniport \(IKEv2\)**, and click **Configure**. The **Configure Device - WAN Miniport \(IKEv2\)** dialog box opens.

18.  In **Configure Device - WAN Miniport \(IKEv2\)**, in **Maximum ports**, type the number of ports to match the maximum number of simultaneous VPN connections that you want to support, and then click **OK**.

19. If prompted, click **Yes** to confirm restarting the server.

20. If prompted, click **Close** to restart the server.

For the next Always On VPN deployment steps, see [Install and Configure the NPS Server](vpn-deploy-nps.md).

Commit message:

Added accounting provider configuration step

WindowsServerDocs/remote/remote-access/vpn/always-on-vpn/deploy/vpn-deploy-ras.md, after:

---
title: Configure the Remote Access Server for Always On VPN
description: This topic provides detailed instructions for deploying Always On VPN in Windows Server 2016.
ms.prod: windows-server-threshold
ms.technology: networking
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 7607a9b7-c9a4-4c4d-8a62-2d4c422e2a1f
manager: brianlic
ms.author: jamesmci
author: jamesmci
---

# Configure the Remote Access Server for Always On VPN

>Applies To: Windows Server 2016, Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows 10

You can use this section to install and configure the Remote Access server role on the computer or virtual machine \(VM\) that you want to use as your VPN server. 

The steps in this section allow you to complete the following items.

1. On the computer or VM that is planned as the VPN server, and that is installed on your perimeter network, you can install Remote Access.

2. On the Remote Access server, you can configure Remote Access as a RAS Gateway VPN server.

## Install Remote Access as a RAS Gateway VPN Server

You can use this section to install the Remote Access role as a single tenant RAS Gateway VPN server.

For more information, see [Remote Access](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows-server/remote/remote-access/remote-access).

**Administrative Credentials**

To complete this procedure, you must be a member of the **Domain Admins** group.

### To install Remote Access by using Windows PowerShell

To perform this procedure by using Windows PowerShell, run Windows PowerShell as Administrator, type the following command, and then press ENTER.

`Install-WindowsFeature DirectAccess-VPN -IncludeManagementTools`

After installation successfully completes, the following message appears in Windows PowerShell.

|Success| Restart Needed| Exit Code|  Feature Result|
|------- |--------------| ---------|  --------------|
|True|No |Success|{RAS Connection Manager Administration Kit|

### To install Remote Access by using Server Manager

You can use the following procedure to install Remote Access using Server Manager.

1.  On the VPN server, in **Server Manager**, click **Manage**, and then click **Add Roles and Features**. The Add Roles and Features Wizard opens.

2.  In **Before you begin**, click **Next**.

3.  In **Select Installation Type**, ensure that **Role-Based or feature-based installation** is selected, and then click **Next**.

4.  In **Select destination server**, ensure that **Select a server from the server pool** is selected. In **Server Pool**, ensure that the local computer is selected. Click **Next**.

5.  In **Select server roles**, in **Roles**, click **Remote Access**, and then click **Next**.

6.  In **Select features**, click **Next**.

7.  In **Remote Access**, click **Next**.

8.  In **Select role service**, in **Role services**, click **DirectAccess and VPN \(RAS\)**. The **Add Roles and Features Wizard** dialog box opens.

9.  In **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, click **Add Features** to close the dialog box, and then click
    **Next**.

10. In **Web Server Role (IIS)**, click **Next**.

11. In **Select role services**, click **Next**.

12. In **Confirm installation selections**, review the choices you've made, and then click **Install**.

13. When the installation is complete, click **Close**.

## Configure Remote Access as a VPN Server

In this section, you configure Remote Access VPN to allow IKEv2 VPN connections, deny connections from other VPN protocols, and assign a static IP address pool for issuance of IP addresses to connecting authorized VPN clients.

### To Configure Remote Access as a VPN Server

1.  On the VPN server, in Server Manager, click the **Notifications** flag; then, in the **Tasks** menu, click **Open the Getting Started Wizard**. The **Configure Remote Access** wizard opens.

	>[!NOTE]
	>The **Configure Remote Access** wizard might open behind Server Manager. If you think the wizard is taking too long to open, move or minimize Server Manager to find out whether the wizard is behind it. If not, wait for the wizard to initialize.

1.  In **Configure Remote Access**, click **Deploy VPN only**. The Routing and Remote Access Microsoft Management Console \(MMC\) opens.

2.  In Routing and Remote Access, right-click the VPN server, and click **Configure and Enable Routing and Remote Access**. The **Routing and Remote Access Server Setup Wizard** opens. Complete the following steps:

    a.  In the Routing and Remote Access Server Setup Wizard, click **Next**.

    b.  In **Configuration**, click **Custom Configuration**, and then click **Next**.

    c.  In **Custom Configuration**, click **VPN access**, and then click **Next**.

    d.  In **Completing the Routing and Remote Access Server Setup Wizard**, click **Finish** to close the wizard, and click **OK** to close the Routing and Remote Access dialog box.

    e.  Click **Start service** to start Remote Access.

3.  In the Remote Access MMC, right\-click the VPN server, and click **Properties**.

4.  In **Properties**, click the **IPv4** tab. Click **Static address pool**, and complete the following steps to configure an IP address pool. The static address pool should contain addresses from the internal perimeter network. These addresses are on the internal-facing network connection on the VPN server, not the corporate network.

    a.  Click **Add**.

    b.  In **Start IP address**, type the starting IP address in the range you want to assign to VPN clients.

    c.  In **End IP address**, type the ending IP address in the range you want to assign to VPN clients, or in **Number of addresses**, type the number of address you want to make available.

	>[!NOTE]
	>If you’re using DHCP for this subnet, ensure that you configure a corresponding address exclusion on your DHCP servers.

5.  In **Properties**, on the **IPv4** tab, click **Adapter**. The resulting list displays the network adapters that are installed. Click the Ethernet adapter that is connected to your internal perimeter network.

6. In **Properties**, click the **Security** tab. Click **Authentication provider**, and then click **RADIUS Authentication**. Click **Configure**. The **RADIUS Authentication** dialog box opens.

7. In **RADIUS Authentication**, click **Add**. The **Add RADIUS Server** dialog box opens.

8. In **Add RADIUS Server**, in **Server name**, type the Fully Qualified Domain Name of the NPS server on your Organization/Corporate network. For example, if the NetBIOS name of your NPS server is NPS1 and your domain name is corp.contoso.com, type **NPS1.corp.contoso.com**.

9. In **Shared secret**, click **Change**. The **Change Secret** dialog box opens.

10. In **Change Secret**, in **New secret**, type a text string. In **Confirm new secret**, type the same text string, and then click **OK**. IMPORTANT: Save this text string. When you configure the NPS Server on your Organization/Corporate network, you will add this VPN Server as a RADIUS Client. During that configuration, you will use this same shared secret so that the NPS and VPN Servers can communicate.

11. In **Add RADIUS Server**, review the default settings for **Time-out**, **Initial score**, and **Port**. If necessary, change the values to match the requirements for your environment, and then click **OK**.

12. On the **Security** tab, review the setting for **Accounting provider**. If you want Remote Access activity logged on the Remote Access server, ensure that **Windows Accounting** is selected. If you want your NPS server to perform accounting services for VPN, change **Accounting provider** to **RADIUS Accounting**, and then configure the NPS server as the accounting provider.

12.  Click **OK** to close the **Properties** dialog box.

13.  In the Routing and Remote Access MMC, right-click **Ports,** and then click **Properties**. The **Ports Properties** dialog box opens.

14.  In **Ports Properties**, click **WAN Miniport \(SSTP\)**, and then click **Configure**. The **Configure Device - WAN Miniport \(SSTP\)** dialog box opens.

15.  In **Configure Device - WAN Miniport \(SSTP\)**, deselect the **Remote access connections \(inbound only\)** and **Demand-dial routing connections \(inbound and outbound\)** check boxes, and then click **OK**.

16.  Repeat the actions described in the previous step for **WAN Miniport \(L2TP\)** and **WAN Miniport \(PPTP\)**.

17.  Click **WAN Miniport \(IKEv2\)**, and click **Configure**. The **Configure Device - WAN Miniport \(IKEv2\)** dialog box opens.

18.  In **Configure Device - WAN Miniport \(IKEv2\)**, in **Maximum ports**, type the number of ports to match the maximum number of simultaneous VPN connections that you want to support, and then click **OK**.

19. If prompted, click **Yes** to confirm restarting the server.

20. If prompted, click **Close** to restart the server.

For the next Always On VPN deployment steps, see [Install and Configure the NPS Server](vpn-deploy-nps.md).
