WindowsServerDocs/identity/ad-fs/operations/Azure-UX-Web-Theme-in-AD-FS.md, before:

---
title: Azure AD UX Web Theme in AD FS
description: The following document describes how to change the AD FS forms sign-in so that it resembles the Azure AD user experience.
author: billmath
ms.author: billmath
manager: femila
ms.date: 10/24/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-server-threshold
ms.technology: identity-adfs
---

# Using an Azure AD UX Web Theme in Active Directory Federation Services
The AD FS forms sign in currently does not mirror the Azure/O365 sign-in experience.  To provide a more uniform and seamless experience for end-users, we have released the follow cascading style sheet web theme which can be applied to your AD FS servers.  Currently, the forms sign-in for AD FS on Windows Server 2016 looks like following:

![Current sign-in](media/Azure-UX-Web-Theme-in-AD-FS/one.png)


With the new style sheet, the user experience will look more like the Azure and Office 365 sign-in experiences.

## Download the CSS style sheet
You can download the web theme from the following Github [location](https://github.com/Microsoft/adfsWebCustomization/tree/master/centeredUi).


## Enabling the new web theme
To enable the new web theme use the following procedure:

### To enable the new Azure AD UX web theme in AD FS
1.  Start PowerShell as an Administrator
2.  Create a new web theme using PowerShell:  `New-AdfsWebTheme –Name custom –StyleSheet @{path="c:\NewTheme.css"}`
3.  Set the new theme as the active theme using PowerShell:  `Set-AdfsWebConfig -ActiveThemeName custom`
![PowerShell](media/Azure-UX-Web-Theme-in-AD-FS/two.png)
4.  Test the sign-in by going to https://<AD FS name.domain>/adfs/ls/idpinitiatedsignon.htm
![Sign-on](media/Azure-UX-Web-Theme-in-AD-FS/three.png)

>![NOTE]
>You need to ensure that idpinitiatedsignon has been enabled.  It is not enabled by default.  To enable idpinitiatedsignon use the following PowerShell command:  `Set-AdfsProperties –EnableIdpInitiatedSignonPage $True`

## Image Recommendations
The following are the size recommendations for the background image and the logo image:

### Logo
- size 24px height, 256px max width
- Do not add any padding around the logo within the asset.  Ensure that the asset background is transparent.

### Background
- size 1024 x 1080 pixels with a file size of no greater than 200KB.  You should use the highest resolution possible with aspect ratio 16:9/16:10 that keeps the image size under the restriction.

## Next Steps
- [AD FS Customization in Windows Server 2016](AD-FS-Customization-in-Windows-Server-2016.md)
- [Advanced Customization](Advanced-Customization-of-AD-FS-Sign-in-Pages.md)
- [Custom web themes](Custom-Web-Themes-in-AD-FS.md)

Commit message:

Align image recommendations with Azure AD branding
Referring to https://github.com/Microsoft/adfsWebCustomization/issues/24.
This update ensures that the image recommendations are in line with Azure AD company branding instructions.

WindowsServerDocs/identity/ad-fs/operations/Azure-UX-Web-Theme-in-AD-FS.md, after:

---
title: Azure AD UX Web Theme in AD FS
description: The following document describes how to change the AD FS forms sign-in so that it resembles the Azure AD user experience.
author: billmath
ms.author: billmath
manager: femila
ms.date: 10/24/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-server-threshold
ms.technology: identity-adfs
---

# Using an Azure AD UX Web Theme in Active Directory Federation Services
The AD FS forms sign in currently does not mirror the Azure/O365 sign-in experience.  To provide a more uniform and seamless experience for end-users, we have released the follow cascading style sheet web theme which can be applied to your AD FS servers.  Currently, the forms sign-in for AD FS on Windows Server 2016 looks like following:

![Current sign-in](media/Azure-UX-Web-Theme-in-AD-FS/one.png)


With the new style sheet, the user experience will look more like the Azure and Office 365 sign-in experiences.

## Download the CSS style sheet
You can download the web theme from the following Github [location](https://github.com/Microsoft/adfsWebCustomization/tree/master/centeredUi).


## Enabling the new web theme
To enable the new web theme use the following procedure:

### To enable the new Azure AD UX web theme in AD FS
1.  Start PowerShell as an Administrator
2.  Create a new web theme using PowerShell:  `New-AdfsWebTheme –Name custom –StyleSheet @{path="c:\NewTheme.css"}`
3.  Set the new theme as the active theme using PowerShell:  `Set-AdfsWebConfig -ActiveThemeName custom`
![PowerShell](media/Azure-UX-Web-Theme-in-AD-FS/two.png)
4.  Test the sign-in by going to https://<AD FS name.domain>/adfs/ls/idpinitiatedsignon.htm
![Sign-on](media/Azure-UX-Web-Theme-in-AD-FS/three.png)

>![NOTE]
>You need to ensure that idpinitiatedsignon has been enabled.  It is not enabled by default.  To enable idpinitiatedsignon use the following PowerShell command:  `Set-AdfsProperties –EnableIdpInitiatedSignonPage $True`

## Image Recommendations
Enabling the centered UI enables you to use the same images for background and logo that you might already have for [Azure Active Directory company branding](active-directory/customize-branding.md). Generally, the same recommendations for size, ratio, and format do apply.

### Logo
Description | Constraints | Recommendations
------- | ------- | ----------
The logo is displayed on top of the login panel. | Transparent JPG or PNG<br>Max height: 36 px<br>Max width: 245 px | Use your organization’s logo here.<br>Use a transparent image. Don’t assume that the background will be white.<br>Do not add padding around your logo in the image or your logo will look disproportionately small.

### Background
Description | Constraints | Recommendations
------- | ------- | ----------
This option appears in the background of the sign-in page, is anchored to the center of the viewable space, and scales and crops to fill the browser window.	<br>On narrow screens such as mobile phones, this image is not shown.<br>A black mask with 0.55 opacity is applied over this image when the page is loaded. | JPG or PNG<br>Image dimensions: 1920x1080 px<br>File size: &lt; 300 KB | <br>Use images where there isn't a strong subject focus. The opaque sign-in form appears over the center of this image and can cover any part of the image, depending on the size of the browser window.<br>Keep the file size small to ensure quick load times.

## Next Steps
- [AD FS Customization in Windows Server 2016](AD-FS-Customization-in-Windows-Server-2016.md)
- [Advanced Customization](Advanced-Customization-of-AD-FS-Sign-in-Pages.md)
- [Custom web themes](Custom-Web-Themes-in-AD-FS.md)
