WindowsServerDocs/management/performance-tuning/toc.md, before:

# [Performance tuning guidelines for Windows Server 2016](index.md)
## [Server hardware tuning](hardware/index.md)
### [Performance considerations](hardware/index.md)
### [Power considerations](hardware/power.md)
#### [Power and performance tuning](hardware/power/power-performance-tuning.md)
#### [Processor Power Management (PPM) tuning](hardware/power/processor-power-management-tuning.md)
#### [Recommended balanced power plan parameters](hardware/power/recommended-balanced-plan-parameters.md)
## Server Role Tuning
### [Active Directory Server](role/active-directory-server/index.md)
#### [Site definition considerations](role/active-directory-server/site-definition-considerations.md)
#### [Hardware considerations](role/active-directory-server/hardware-considerations.md)
#### [LDAP considerations](role/active-directory-server/ldap-considerations.md)
### [File Server](role/file-server/index.md)
#### [SMB File Server](role/file-server/smb-file-server.md)
#### [NFS File Server](role/file-server/nfs-file-server.md)
### [Hyper-V Server](role/hyper-v-server/index.md)
#### [Terminology](role/hyper-v-server/terminology.md)
#### [Architecture](role/hyper-v-server/architecture.md)
#### [Configuration](role/hyper-v-server/configuration.md)
#### [Processor performance](role/hyper-v-server/processor-performance.md)
#### [Memory performance](role/hyper-v-server/memory-performance.md)
#### [Storage I/O performance](role/hyper-v-server/storage-io-performance.md)
#### [Network I/O performance](role/hyper-v-server/network-io-performance.md)
#### [Detecting bottlenecks in a virtualized environment](role/hyper-v-server/detecting-virtualized-environment-bottlenecks.md)
#### [Linux virtual machine considerations](role/hyper-v-server/linux-virtual-machine-considerations.md)
### [Windows Server Containers](role/windows-server-container/index.md)
### [Remote Desktop Services](role/remote-desktop/session-hosts.md)
#### [Session hosts](role/remote-desktop/session-hosts.md)
#### [Virtualization hosts](role/remote-desktop/virtualization-hosts.md)
#### [Gateways](role/remote-desktop/gateways.md)
### [Web Server](role/web-server/index.md)
#### [Tuning IIS 10.0](role/web-server/tuning-iis-10.md)
#### [HTTP 1.2/2](role/web-server/http-performance.md)
## Server Subsystem Tuning
### [Cache and Memory](subsystem/cache-memory-management/index.md)
#### [Troubleshoot cache and memory manager performance](subsystem/cache-memory-management/troubleshoot.md)
#### [Cache and memory manager improvements](subsystem/cache-memory-management/improvements-in-2016.md)
### [Software Defined Networking (SDN) tuning](subsystem/software-defined-networking/index.md)
#### [HNV gateway performance](subsystem/software-defined-networking/hnv-gateway-performance.md)
#### [SLB gateway performance](subsystem/software-defined-networking/slb-gateway-performance.md)
### [Storage Spaces Direct (SSD)](subsystem/storage-spaces-direct/index.md)
## [Additional tuning resources](additional-resources.md)

Commit message:

including networking subsystem toc changes

WindowsServerDocs/management/performance-tuning/toc.md, after:

# [Performance tuning guidelines for Windows Server 2016](index.md)
## [Server hardware tuning](hardware/index.md)
### [Performance considerations](hardware/index.md)
### [Power considerations](hardware/power.md)
#### [Power and performance tuning](hardware/power/power-performance-tuning.md)
#### [Processor Power Management (PPM) tuning](hardware/power/processor-power-management-tuning.md)
#### [Recommended balanced power plan parameters](hardware/power/recommended-balanced-plan-parameters.md)
## Server Role Tuning
### [Active Directory Server](role/active-directory-server/index.md)
#### [Site definition considerations](role/active-directory-server/site-definition-considerations.md)
#### [Hardware considerations](role/active-directory-server/hardware-considerations.md)
#### [LDAP considerations](role/active-directory-server/ldap-considerations.md)
### [File Server](role/file-server/index.md)
#### [SMB File Server](role/file-server/smb-file-server.md)
#### [NFS File Server](role/file-server/nfs-file-server.md)
### [Hyper-V Server](role/hyper-v-server/index.md)
#### [Terminology](role/hyper-v-server/terminology.md)
#### [Architecture](role/hyper-v-server/architecture.md)
#### [Configuration](role/hyper-v-server/configuration.md)
#### [Processor performance](role/hyper-v-server/processor-performance.md)
#### [Memory performance](role/hyper-v-server/memory-performance.md)
#### [Storage I/O performance](role/hyper-v-server/storage-io-performance.md)
#### [Network I/O performance](role/hyper-v-server/network-io-performance.md)
#### [Detecting bottlenecks in a virtualized environment](role/hyper-v-server/detecting-virtualized-environment-bottlenecks.md)
#### [Linux virtual machine considerations](role/hyper-v-server/linux-virtual-machine-considerations.md)
### [Windows Server Containers](role/windows-server-container/index.md)
### [Remote Desktop Services](role/remote-desktop/session-hosts.md)
#### [Session hosts](role/remote-desktop/session-hosts.md)
#### [Virtualization hosts](role/remote-desktop/virtualization-hosts.md)
#### [Gateways](role/remote-desktop/gateways.md)
### [Web Server](role/web-server/index.md)
#### [Tuning IIS 10.0](role/web-server/tuning-iis-10.md)
#### [HTTP 1.2/2](role/web-server/http-performance.md)
## Server Subsystem Tuning
### [Cache and Memory](subsystem/cache-memory-management/index.md)
#### [Troubleshoot cache and memory manager performance](subsystem/cache-memory-management/troubleshoot.md)
#### [Cache and memory manager improvements](subsystem/cache-memory-management/improvements-in-2016.md)
### [Performance Tuning for Network Subsystems](../../networking/technologies/network-subsystem/net-sub-performance-top.md)
#### [Choosing a Network Adapter](../../networking/technologies/network-subsystem/net-sub-choose-nic.md)
#### [Configure the Order of Network Interfaces](../../networking/technologies/network-subsystem/net-sub-interface-metric.md)
#### [Performance Tuning Network Adapters](../../networking/technologies/network-subsystem/net-sub-performance-tuning-nics.md)\
#### [Network-Related Performance Counters](../../networking/technologies/network-subsystem/net-sub-performance-counters.md)
#### [Performance Tools for Network Workloads](../../networking/technologies/network-subsystem/net-sub-performance-tools.md)
#### [NIC Teaming for Network Subsystem Perf](../../networking/technologies/nic-teaming/NIC-Teaming.md)
#### [NIC Teaming in Virtual Machines (VMs)](../../networking/technologies/nic-teaming/nict-vms.md)
#### [NIC Teaming and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs)](../../networking/technologies/nic-teaming/nict-and-vlans.md)
#### [NIC Teaming MAC address Use and Management](../../networking/technologies/nic-teaming/NIC-Teaming-MAC-address-Use-and-Management.md)
#### [Create a New NIC Team on a Host computer or VM](../../networking/technologies/nic-teaming/create-a-New-NIC-Team-on-a-Host-computer-or-VM.md)
#### [Create a New NIC Team in a VM](../../networking/technologies/nic-teaming/create-a-New-NIC-Team-in-a-VM.md)
#### [Create a New NIC Team](../../networking/technologies/nic-teaming/create-a-New-NIC-Team.md)
#### [Troubleshooting NIC Teaming](../../networking/technologies/nic-teaming/Troubleshooting-NIC-Teaming.md)
### [Software Defined Networking (SDN) tuning](subsystem/software-defined-networking/index.md)
#### [HNV gateway performance](subsystem/software-defined-networking/hnv-gateway-performance.md)
#### [SLB gateway performance](subsystem/software-defined-networking/slb-gateway-performance.md)
### [Storage Spaces Direct (SSD)](subsystem/storage-spaces-direct/index.md)
## [Additional tuning resources](additional-resources.md)
