---
title: Troubleshooting File Server Resource Manager
description: This article describes how to troubleshoot common issues when using file server resource manager
ms.date: 7/7/2017
ms.prod: windows-server
ms.technology: storage
ms.topic: article
author: JasonGerend
manager: brianlic
ms.author: jgerend
---

# Troubleshooting File Server Resource Manager

> Applies to: Windows Server 2019, Windows Server 2016, Windows Server (Semi-Annual Channel), Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2008 R2

This section lists common issues that you might encounter when using File Server Resource Manager.

> [!Note]
> A good troubleshooting option is to look for event logs that have been generated by File Server Resource Manager. All event log entries for File Server Resource Manager can be found in the**Application** event log under the source **SRMSVC**

## I am not receiving e-mail notifications.

-   **Cause**: The e-mail options have not been configured or have been configured incorrectly.

-   **Solution**: On the **E-mail Notifications** tab, in the **File Server Resource Manager Options** dialog box, verify that the SMTP server and default e-mail recipients have been specified and are valid. Send a test e-mail to confirm that the information is correct and that the SMTP server that is used to send the notifications is working properly. For more information see [Configure E-Mail Notifications](configure-email-notifications.md).


## I am only receiving one e-mail notification, even though the event that triggered that notification happened several times in a row.

-   **Cause**: When a user attempts several times to save a file that is blocked or to save a file that exceeds a quota threshold, and there is an e-mail notification configured for that file screening or quota event, only one e-mail is sent to the administrator over a 60-minute period by default. This prevents an abundance of redundant messages in the administrator's e-mail account.

-   **Solution**: On the **Notification Limits** tab, in the **File Server Resource Manager Options** dialog box, you can set a time limit for each of the notification types: e-mail, event log, command, and report. Each limit specifies a time period that must pass before another notification of the same type is generated for the same issue. For more information see [Configure Notification Limits](configure-notification-limits.md).


## My storage reports keep failing and little or no information is available in the Event Log regarding the source of the failure.

-   **Cause**: The volume where the reports are being saved may be corrupted.
-   **Solution**: Run **chkdsk** on the volume and try generating the reports again.

## My File Screening Audit reports do not contain any information.

-   **Cause**: One or more of the following may be the cause:
    -   The auditing database is not configured to record file screening activity.
    -   The auditing database is empty (that is, no file screening activity has been recorded).
    -   The parameters for the File Screening Audit report are not selecting data from the auditing database.
    
-   **Solution**: On the **File Screen Audit** tab, in the **File Server Resource Manager Options** dialog box, verify that the **Record file screening activity in the auditing database** check box is selected.
    -   For more information about recording file screening activity, see [Configure File Screen Audit](configure-file-screen-audit.md).
    -   To configure default parameters for the File Screening Audit report, see [Configure Storage Reports](configure-storage-reports.md).
    -   To edit report parameters for scheduled report tasks or on-demand reports, see [Storage Reports Management](storage-reports-management.md).

## The "Used" and "Available" values for some of the quotas I have created do not correspond to the actual "Limit" setting.

-   **Cause**: You may have a nested quota, where the quota of a subfolder derives a more restrictive limit from the quota of its parent folder. For example, you might have a quota limit of 100 megabytes (MB) applied to a parent folder and a quota of 200 MB applied separately to each of its subfolders. If the parent folder has a total of 50 MB of data stored in it (the sum of the data stored in its subfolders), each of the subfolders will list only 50 MB of available space.

-   **Solution**: Under **Quota Management**, click **Quotas**. In the **Results** pane, select the quota entry that you are troubleshooting. In the **Actions** pane, click **View Quotas Affecting Folder**, and then look for quotas that are applied to the parent folders. This will allow you to identify which parent folder quotas have a lower storage limit setting than the quota you have selected.

