WindowsServerDocs/manage/honolulu-ga/overview.md, before:

---
author: haley-rowland
---

# Windows Admin Center (formerly Project Honolulu)

## Remote server management for the modern era
Windows Admin Center is generally available and can be used in production environments. And it's free!

## [Download now](http://aka.ms/honoluludownload)
Or, [plan Windows Admin Center for your environment](todo)

********************

Quick Links: [Documentation](todo) | [Give feedback](todo) | [Recent updates](todo) | [For developers](todo)

********************
//VIDEO GOES HERE

## Windows Admin Center is a lightweight, browser-based GUI toolset for managing servers, clusters, and hyper-converged infrastructure. It's the evolution of familiar in-box managment tools plus so much more.

<table border="0" cellpadding="0" style="text-align:center;margin:auto" width="200px" align="center">
        <tr> 
          <td> <img src="../media/honolulu-ga/legacy-sod.gif"> <br/> Legacy tools  </td>
		  <td> -->
		  </td>
		  <td>
		  <img src="../media/honolulu-ga/server-overview-tool.gif"> <br/>WAC</td>
        </tr> 
</table>

<table>
	<tr style="border: 0;">
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0; width:100px">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt="">
		</td>
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;">
			<b>Simple & lightweight</b> <br/> Familiar tools are streamlined to make management tasks a breeze. Install in under 5 minutes and manage servers in your environment immediately, no target configuration required.
		</td>
	</tr>
    	<tr style="border: 0;">
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0; width:100px">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt="">
		</td>
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;">
			<b>Built for the future</b> <br/> Integration with Azure services helps you leverage the power of the hybrid world. Manage Hyper-Converged clusters with powerful yet simple tools.
		</td>
	</tr>
    	<tr style="border: 0;">
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0; width:100px">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt="">
		</td>
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;">
			<b>Secure management</b> <br/> Control who can manage servers and get unparalleled insight into the actions administrators perform in your environment.
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

[Learn more about how Windows Admin Center can improve management of your server envrionment.](overview.md)

********************

## See how companies use Windows Admin Center to 

<table align="center" border="0" cellpadding="0">
	<tr style="border: 0; background-color: lightgrey">
		<td style="padding: 20px; border: 0;" align="center">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt=""> <br/>
            Case study 1
		</td>
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;" align="center">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt=""> <br/>
            Case study 2
		</td>
        <td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;" align="center">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt=""> <br/>
            Case study 3
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

********************

## Related products

Project Honolulu is designed for single-instance server or cluster management and no
[ SCCM ] [ OMS ]

********************

### [[Product Updates >]](todo)

********************
<!-- taken from w3schools -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css">

Follow us:
<a href="https://twitter.com/servermgmt" class="fa fa-twitter"></a>
<a href="https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/servermanagement/" class="fa fa-rss"></a>
<style>
.fa {
  padding: 5px;
  font-size: 20px;
  width: 20px;
  text-align: center;
  text-decoration: none;
  margin: 5px 2px;
}

.fa:hover {
    opacity: 0.7;
}
</style>

Commit message:

Landing page updates, added media/honolulu-ga folder and some gifs

WindowsServerDocs/manage/honolulu-ga/overview.md, after:

---
author: haley-rowland
---

# Windows Admin Center (formerly Project Honolulu)

## Remote server management for the modern era
Windows Admin Center is generally available and can be deployed in production environments. Plus it's free!

## [Download now](http://aka.ms/honoluludownload)
Or, [plan Windows Admin Center for your environment](todo)

********************

Quick Links: [Documentation](todo) | [Give feedback](todo) | [Recent updates](todo) | [For developers](todo)

********************
//VIDEO GOES HERE

## Windows Admin Center is a lightweight, browser-based GUI toolset for managing servers, clusters, and hyper-converged infrastructure. It's the evolution of familiar in-box managment tools plus so much more.

<table border="0" cellpadding="0" style="text-align:center;margin:auto" width="200px" align="center">
        <tr> 
          <td> <img src="../media/honolulu-ga/legacy-sod.gif"> <br/> Legacy tools  </td>
		  <td> -->
		  </td>
		  <td>
		  <img src="../media/honolulu-ga/server-overview-tool.gif"> <br/>WAC</td>
        </tr> 
</table>

<table>
	<tr style="border: 0;">
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0; width:100px">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt="">
		</td>
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;">
			<b>Simple & lightweight</b> <br/> Familiar tools are streamlined to make management tasks a breeze. Install in under 5 minutes and manage servers in your environment immediately, no target configuration required.
		</td>
	</tr>
    	<tr style="border: 0;">
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0; width:100px">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt="">
		</td>
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;">
			<b>Built for the future</b> <br/> Integration with Azure services helps you leverage the power of the hybrid world. Manage Hyper-Converged clusters with powerful yet simple tools.
		</td>
	</tr>
    	<tr style="border: 0;">
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0; width:100px">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt="">
		</td>
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;">
			<b>Secure management</b> <br/> Control who can manage servers and get unparalleled insight into the actions administrators perform in your environment.
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

[Learn more about how Windows Admin Center can improve management of your server envrionment.](overview.md)

********************

## See how companies use Windows Admin Center to 

<table align="center" border="0" cellpadding="0">
	<tr style="border: 0; background-color: lightgrey">
		<td style="padding: 20px; border: 0;" align="center">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt=""> <br/>
            Case study 1
		</td>
		<td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;" align="center">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt=""> <br/>
            Case study 2
		</td>
        <td style="padding: 10px; border: 0;" align="center">
			<img src=//ADDICON width="100" alt=""> <br/>
            Case study 3
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

********************

## Related products

Windows Admin Center is designed for managing a single server or cluster. It is intended to complement and not replace other Microsoft monitoring and management solutions, such as System Center and Operations Management Suite.

[System Center](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/system-center) is an on-premises datacenter management solution for deployment, configuration, management, monitoring of your entire datacenter. System Center lets you see the status of all the machines in your environment, while Windows Admin Center lets you drill down into a specific server to manage or troubleshoot it with more granular tools.

[Operations Management Suite](https://www.microsoft.com/cloud-platform/operations-management-suite) is a collection of management services entirely hosted in Azure that can be used to manage servers both in the cloud and on-premises. Operations Mangament Suite allows you to monitor and analyze resource performance, automate manual processes. Windows Admin Center provides additional tools at the single-server/single-cluster level.

********************
<!-- taken from w3schools -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css">

Follow us:
<a href="https://twitter.com/servermgmt" class="fa fa-twitter"></a>
<a href="https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/servermanagement/" class="fa fa-rss"></a>
<style>
.fa {
  padding: 5px;
  font-size: 20px;
  width: 20px;
  text-align: center;
  text-decoration: none;
  margin: 5px 2px;
}

.fa:hover {
    opacity: 0.7;
}
</style>
